Nevertheless, the escalating cycles of war and violence which have begun in the mid-2000ss and metastasised in the 2010s lend fuel to the fires of pessimism for many today. As a result, many of us may feel despair and believe that the laudable goal of equality of opportunities for women is more remote than ever before in human history. This pessimism is understandable, given how war and conflict irreversibly destroys the societies and stable social conditions which all people – but women especially – require for a peaceful and fulfilling life. Thus, we feel sympathy and – for the sensitive – acute emotional distress for the women and girls displaced by violent war and conflict in diverse conflict zones ranging from Marawi in the Philippines to Homs in Syria and the ongoing high- intensity government-drug cartel battles in the Juarez region of Mexico. The absence of peace has regrettably, in all these instances, prevented or at the very least, delayed the prospects for women and girls to fulfil their aspirations for education, work or even the basic right to life.

Yet, there is hope and a more optimistic landscape of social change and empowerment we can look to if we review the issue from a more pro-active perspective. The opportunities for females can paradoxically find life and resurgence in conflict zones once the conflict has ended or more realistically, been reduced to manageable levels through intervention and sustained engagement by the affected people and the wider international community. This trend is best observed in societies undergoing rebuilding and reconstruction today, such as Rwanda and Afghanistan. For the women in the former country, a generation of conscientious rebuilding since the genocide of 1993-1994 has enabled the government to provide more opportunities for female workplace participation and economic rejuvenation. Similarly, for Afghanistan, concerted efforts by the government and United Nations peace-keeping forces dedicated to reconstruction have provided a fair degree of stability for women to participate more fully in economic and social life today than when the country was held by the Taliban regime. More notably, the participation of Afghani women athletes, such as its celebrated women’s boxing team, lends hope to the ideal of empowerment and equality of opportunity for women.

Thus, while the tendency to feel despair for women’s prospects may exist within us, given the social and political realities we live in, we can direct our sights and efforts towards a more uplifting understanding of the world today. International efforts, alongside the innate fortitude of women which gifts them with the power to rise above their difficult circumstances, enjoins us to feel cautious optimism for equality of opportunities for women today. Going forward, it will be imperative that we collectively direct these efforts with greater commitment to the provision of opportunities for women. In doing so, we will have taken additional steps, initiated by the likes of Jane Goodall, Grameen Bank and the Afghani women boxers, to pave the road of well-being and dignity for all women today and in the future.
