A solid grounding in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) will be essential for most working people in the era of Industry 4.0 – especially if they hope to achieve longevity and upward mobility in their chosen careers. It also needs to be acknowledged that a powerful trend catalysed by technology – outsourcing – is profoundly altering many industrial corporate structures in such a way that have destroyed or decimated traditional career paths. Many established industrial companies such as those in steel, automotive, energy, IT and manufacturing have outsourced many of their business processes and large parts of their value chain. An example in manufacturing would be Philips – which engages contract manufacturers in places like Mexico and China to produce many of their products – and one in IT would be IBM, which outsources tech support, research and development (R & D), and more to India. Gone are the days when these firms would offer a 30-year “lifelong career” to fresh university graduates. In fact, Deloitte has found that only 19 percent of companies still offer traditional, multi-decade functional career models. Many, such as AT&T and IBM, are devoting themselves instead to helping employees continuously reskill and move horizontally within the organisation. New kinds of hybrid jobs are constantly emerging, such as data scientist and user experience designer, as technical skills become commoditised and easily outsourced. 

However, if the only constant is greater rapidity of change, then those who excel in keeping up with, driving or managing change will always be relevant. Top-notch R & D engineers will always be valued by an organisation. Outstanding managers who understand how to motivate people and strategize for a team in a dynamic environment will always be crucial to a company. And as corporate structures are adjusted, dismantled and reassembled in the Age of Acceleration, management consultants will only be increasingly needed to help companies to make optimal changes and make transitions successfully with guidance from research into the experience of other organisations. In an age of change, a career for life is still very much viable for those whose forte is change itself.

All said, I maintain my view that in the era of jet-heeled technological development, a single career for one’s entire working life, while elusive for many, remains a realistic aspiration for a good number of people in professions that are difficult to automate or which specialise in the process of technology-driven change itself. Amidst the constant hype about transformational technology replacing humans, I still believe that the human being is the greatest machine. Yes, a robot can beat us in some single, narrowly focused tasks like chess but it cannot yet handle a multifaceted job like doing all the housework, raising a child, running a government, managing a team, writing a screenplay – or for that matter, scoring an A for a General Paper exam. The complexity of programming for it to handle any of these things is mind-boggling and the evidence after many years of IT and AI research does little to suggest that man-made technology will ever be able to catch up to man in these multidimensional capabilities.

