In late 2017, globally acclaimed magazine National Geographic ran a cover story on the achievements of Jane Goodall, the highly respected primatologist who pioneered transformative and critically insightful research into the study of chimpanzees and their social capabilities, which are so akin to human societies. National Geographic, in recognising Goodall’s achievements, noted how she had to struggle in the early years of her career from the 1970s to 1990s to overcome the obstacles to her work imposed by a male-dominated work-culture and environment. In reviewing her story, many readers recognised and acknowledged how Jane Goodall’s journey from the margins of the scientific community to becoming one of the brightest stars in today’s constellation of research celebrities signifies that equality of opportunity for women today is increasingly possible. Despite the scepticism and queries posed by those who doubt the reality of equality for women, many of us will agree with the hope symbolised by the Jane Goodall narrative. Women today are increasingly gaining opportunities to excel in diverse fields, providing a much-needed motive force to humanity in our march towards economic and social progress. 

A common doubt expressed by the pessimistic regarding female empowerment finds its rationale in the continued denial of educational opportunities for women in the impoverished regions of the developing world. The dominant perspective for this narrative is found, so the skeptics assert, in diverse countries where patriarchal traditions and practices present obstacles to education for young girls and women. The usual list of countries where such practices take place would include India, Nepal and Bangladesh where unfortunately, male children are often preferred over female children. In these societies, the former are deemed as being of greater economic and social worth by parents in conservative rural regions and communities, leaving the latter – female children – to be deprived of educational opportunities when poverty and scarce monetary resources compel parents to exclude female children from obtaining even basic literacy or primary school education. Indeed, given this bleak picture, it is difficult for us to deny the skeptics of female empowerment: the shackles of female social imprisonment, lent rigor by the twin forces of poverty and discriminatory traditions, may indeed prove impossible to overcome.

However, this narrative ignores the positive and transformative power of social activism in our globalised world today, which equips all societies with the means and – more critically – motivation to realistically facilitate equality of opportunity for women. This highly desirable outcome has been given impetus in recent years through the tireless efforts of diverse social organisations and activist movements, all united in their common aspiration to create and sustain the conditions and platforms needed to provide social and economic opportunities to women that were previously denied to them. The most notable of these champions for female empowerment would be micro- lending organisation, Grameen Bank, which pioneered the practice of micro-financing in the early 2000s for impoverished young women and farmers in Bangladesh, enabling a generation of women to find opportunities as entrepreneurs in their rural communities and acquire the financial resources necessary to send their children, both boys and girls, to schools. Micro-financing has since become a viable platform for poverty alleviation and the provision of education for young girls and women in diverse communities in South Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America, supported by aid groups such as Oxfam and international organisations such as the United Nations Children’s Education Fund (UNICEF). Thus, the granting of opportunities for females is a distinct possibility rather than a lost cause, given the hopeful and inspirational work done by these groups.
