Many parents in Singapore lament that children in our country today cannot enjoy their childhood. The emphasis on academic grades has risen steadily over the 50-odd years of our independence to the point that almost every waking hour of a child or teenager is spent either attending classes (and co-curricular activities) in school, attending extra tutoring classes after school or doing homework assigned by either the school teacher or private tutor. It can seem that intellectual skills, which this essay shall define as the capacity to solve abstract problems and grasp abstract concepts such as those in advanced calculus, take precedence over every other measure of a person including practical ability – which I shall define as the capacity to solve problems in day-to-day life such as fixing a leaky tap, managing a team of workers or investing in the stock market. To clarify, intellectual skills are the focus of academic studies, and thus the country’s focus on grades are a good index of the importance that it places on intellectual skills. In spite of this, it is my contention that it is to a great extent true that practical competence is just as high a priority as intellectual skills in Singapore.

Opponents to my claim would point to the obsession with grades and not only the doors that impressive academic credentials open for a person, but also the tremendous social prestige that they confer. Scoring straight A’s at the A-level exams or graduating with first class honours from a highly regarded university adds considerably to a person’s social status, and even that of his parents. Little wonder that parents are often heard comparing their children’s grades, schools and so on. Studies also consistently show that the percentage of graduates of the highly regarded state universities such as the National University of Singapore who secure a full-time job within six months after graduation is much higher than those from less well-regarded institutions – about 80 percent versus 60 percent in a recent case. The traditional model of marquee government scholarships being granted to top scorers in examinations, who then typically go on to occupy top jobs in public service and government-linked corporations (GLCs), serves to cement the position of those who hold a view counter to my own. A notable feature of Singapore is the heavy involvement of government in business even while promoting free enterprise – a curious hybrid of free-market capitalism and socialism. This gives rise to the phenomenon of “Singapore Inc”, the idea of country as corporation with the government owning some of the largest companies such as Keppel Corporation and ST Engineering. The boards of directors at these GLCs include many former government scholars such as Lee Seow Hiang of Changi Airports International.

Sharpening the perception that intellectual or academic talent outweighs practical ability is the impression held by many that some of these scholars, despite their sterling academic record, do not perform well on the job. Desmond Kuek, a scholar and former military general, oversaw the country’s rail operator SMRT Corp while it suffered a spike in breakdowns, a tunnel flooding and even a collision between two trains. Ng Yat Chung, another scholar and former general, was CEO of state-owned shipping liner Neptune Orient Lines, which racked up over a billion Singapore dollars in losses until it was sold to French firm CMA CGM, which managed to turn it around into profitability after one year. Such instances have led to questions of whether Singapore is a true meritocracy of practical skills, or just a hierarchy of grades.

