The relentless rise of science over the centuries, from the days of the great ancient Greek philosopher-scientists such as Democritus and Aristotle to the present day’s biological experiments with implanting human glial cells into the brains of rodents, has not only captured the imagination of the human race but also gradually planted and nurtured the seed of doubt in the human consciousness about our traditional religious beliefs. Today it has become fashionable to express extreme scepticism about the claims of time-honoured scripture or even decry religious belief as being the domain of irrational, ignorant fools. Fixated on the purported ‘objectivity’, ‘reliability’ and ‘rationality’ of science, the modern man often gravitates towards putting his ultimate faith in science; relying on it as the ultimate basis of Truth to the exclusion of all else; and letting it be, to an overwhelming extent, the basis of his actions. While I acknowledge the immense value of science in bringing greater objectivity to our understanding of the world and our lives, I believe that human actions should be founded mainly on scientific fact rather than religious faith only in areas where science is well-equipped to provide more definite answers and reliable solutions than religion. There is no denying that science often provides more objective evidence on many matters – based as it is on observable, measurable evidence – and therefore serves as a more rational basis for our actions in numerous life situations. This is particularly true on matters of physical reality such as the causes of disease or the operation of an aeroplane. In pre-scientific times, man believed that disease had purely supernatural causes – one fell ill because one had offended the gods. The remedy, therefore, was to repent and undertake penance. Thanks to science, we know today that diseases have identifiable natural causes such as viruses, and we can treat our maladies much more reliably with medicine formulated based on scientific evidence and find relief (whether or not the gods were involved in the development of the disease). Thus, human action on such matters should be guided more by scientific fact than religious faith as the former is proven to be more reliable and effective in these aspects of life.

Be that as it may, there is equally no denying that all the glorious discoveries and inventions of science provide extremely limited guidance on one of the most important facets of our lives: morality. Regardless of language, culture or religion, the human being has a deep need to feel that she is living a good life in moral terms – suggesting that this is a fundamental human need. But science, being rooted in physical reality, has little to no capacity to provide answers to such abstract questions. It can help us build a smartphone, but not teach us whether to use it to communicate with sincerity and devotion. It can enable us to build a gun, but not give us clarity on whether we should pull the trigger. It can enable us to conduct bizarre genetic experiments, but not answer the question of whether we should. Religion offers us answers to these questions not through empirical investigation, but through dictate. One could of course argue that religious teachings are morally problematic, and that some principles once regarded as sacred are now often seen as oppressive, such as the Christian prohibition on homosexuality. However, the vast majority of religious moral teachings such as the Christian commandment to be honest, and the Buddhist precept of kindness to all sentient beings, are almost universally accepted as positive, even by free thinkers. Of course, this begs the question of why one would need religion if one could accept these moral ideas to be true even without a faith. I contend that religion provides an authoritative basis for acting in the right way for those who choose to adhere to it. In the absence of religion, it can be difficult to provide any other strong basis on why one should be honest – one could proffer a logical or scientific argument on why one should be so, but it would be equally easy to construct another argument on why one should not. On such matters, science does not provide many conclusive answers and thus, human action should use religion rather than science as its compass.

Beyond morality, there are other questions that stubbornly occupy the minds of a very substantial proportion of our species – notably the origins of our existence, and its meaning. Where did we come from, and why are we here? Contentious as it is, I put forth the assertion that science fails to give any answer that is truly satisfying on either an intellectual or emotional level. On the matter of origins of humanity and of existence, its answers are incomplete and in particular, lacking in some of the most critical areas. The Theory of Evolution and subsequent research provide an impressive body of evidence that we evolved from ape-like creatures, and ultimately from a single-cell organism (possibly Darwin’s “universal common ancestor”). However, it begs the question, where did the first organisms in this process come from? How did such supposedly simple organisms have the amazing functionality of not only being able to reproduce, but also to steadily become millions of times more complex? In other words, even the simplest single-cell organism is a more complex and intricate machine than any device man has ever created. Could such intricate functionality and powerful purposefulness arise by chance? It would be analogous to pieces of plastic and metal randomly coming together to become a pair of Beats headphones. Certainly, there is no empirical evidence of such a thing ever happening.
