With their amazing ingenuity, human beings have for centuries conceived, invented and designed machine after machine to make their lives easier and satisfy their desires. Machines act as multipliers of human ability that allow people to accomplish more in life. It is ironic, however, that in creating machines that are ever more useful, Man has made himself ever less useful. Machines have made human beings redundant in many lines of work, and even where humans are still needed in the production of goods and delivery of services, their levels of skill have largely declined. It may be true that more advanced technology has created a need for new, high-tech skills which have replaced many of the old skills. However, it is this writer’s contention that the new skills pale in comparison with the old skills in terms of the level of intricacy and finesse. Hence, I believe that technology has had a negative impact on the skill levels of people to a large extent.

Our professional skills are a major casualty of automation. Across a wide swathe of industries, the role of human beings has been minimised as machines take over a myriad of functions. In manufacturing, processes from the slicing of potatoes to the soldering of computer chips have been automated. In the aviation sector, today’s pilots rarely fly their aircraft manually, but rather through a highly sophisticated ‘fly-by-wire’ system which uses an electronic interface; flight control computers determine how to control the actuators to provide the desired response. Commands from the computers are even input without the pilot’s knowledge. With autopilot systems, pilots are often actively involved only in the take-off and landing phases of flight. While a pilot’s skill is called upon in a crisis situation or when the avionics fail, these are only exceptional situations – the level of skill required of the pilot is considerably lower than before.

In the area of sports, our skills have also largely declined as a result of technological advancement. The proliferation of new and ever more advanced forms of indoor entertainment has enticed us to carry out more and more of our recreational activities in the comfort of our homes. In the past, children typically went outdoors to have a good time. They played football and other sports and swam in rivers. While sports are still popular with the youth, many have become addicted to electronic games played on their tablet computers and video game consoles like the PlayStation. On average, they spend significantly less time than before playing sports. English football manager Harry Redknapp has bemoaned the ‘PlayStation culture’ which is making it increasingly difficult to find promising young English footballers. To be sure, playing video games takes skill too. However, these skills have little value or substance in the real world. Being able to move your fingers dexterously is far less useful in real life than the ability to move your whole body dexterously, as the latter gives you a feeling of physical confidence which can then translate into greater overall confidence and self-esteem as a person. Furthermore, the latter can save your life in a dangerous situation.
