“Before all else, be armed.” Thus wrote the ruthless Florentine politician-philosopher Niccolo Machiavelli, a man famed for his unflinching pragmatism and grasp of the darker truths of life. While a master of the written word, he also understood the brutal might of physical weaponry. The irony of Machiavelli’s influential assertion is that it proved the power of the written word even while arguing for the supreme might of military capabilities. For the purposes of this essay, I shall interpret “the pen” to refer to the written word and “the sword” to denote military power – in accordance with what I consider to be the spirit of the original quote “The pen is mightier than the sword”. While military armaments grow ever more devastating with the march of technology, I believe the quote remains timelessly true: the written word is, and always will be, more powerful than any force of arms. Sceptics will argue that military muscle – whether in the form of swords, guns or fighter planes – can allow any authoritarian or totalitarian leader to dominate the masses and intimidate them into submission. Those who speak the language of violence may scoff at the power of the pen (or its modern-day equivalent, the touchscreen keyboard) in comparison, and the seemingly frail and intangible words that issue from it as being easily brushed aside by lethal physical weapons. Indeed, the writers of words of dissent can be silenced with just a sword or a bullet. A case in point is the burning of books by Mao Zedong during the Cultural Revolution. The pen seemed to be sliced apart by the brute force of the sword, and indeed many eminent writers were mercilessly dispatched.

However, we should remember that the pen often has profound influence over those who wield the sword. Mao himself, we must remember, was profoundly influenced by the writings of an intellectual – Karl Marx, the writer of the Communist Manifesto. It was a book which, for better or worse, took the world by storm and sparked revolutions from West to East, North to South – including the Communist Revolution in China which lifted Mao to power. We should also recall that Mao used the power of the written word to control the people, in the form of communist literature which was used to indoctrinate young and old in the political ideology he espoused. The anti-war literature of 1960s America also fomented fierce protests and demonstrations against America’s involvement in the Vietnam War, and drove the United States (US) government – who were ostensibly in control of the military – to withdraw from Vietnam in 1975. In a democracy, the will of those who control the military often bends to the will of the people, who are often swayed by the written word. Indeed, democracy itself was spread by the written word of majestic writers such as Thomas Jefferson. When all is said and done, the sword or the gun cannot kill anyone by itself. Every weapon requires human agency to become an instrument of death, and it is the pen which most influences human thought and behaviour as it is the most eloquent way to convey ideas.

Proponents of the primacy of the sword will contend that all the words and books in the world count for nothing if one’s country is unable to defend itself against military invasion. Indeed, all the fine writers and books in Poland seemed helpless and ineffectual in the face of German military might during World War Two, nor did Malayan literature seem to count for much when the country confronted the onslaught from the formidable Japanese army in the same conflict. When one’s country is unable to match the other side for firepower, one’s entire country – including its governance, society and culture – will be subjugated by another and all its words can be wiped out and replaced. The written word and all the knowledge and wisdom it contains, it seems, can seem purely academic as an awesome army cuts a swathe through one’s territory.