Even though science has raised many doubts about the idea of a divine creator, it has never been able to disprove it comprehensively, nor replace the idea with a truly factual alternative. Even if one were to believe that the universe came into being through a Big Bang, and living creatures came into existence by chance and then evolved, science provides little or no conclusive answer to what the meaning of our lives is. Religion, on the other hand, offers the conceptually straightforward idea of a relationship with a divine being or the pursuit of a divine quest through an act of faith as the basis for a good life – which is one that brings immense fulfilment to millions around the world. I do not deny that religion is a highly problematic institution that contributes to strife and conflict, and that many religious believers are delusional or irrational. But the fact is that not all are so. There are highly logical individuals who have found great meaning in religious faith, such as former US president Barack Obama, Nobel prize-winning physicist Max Planck, and the Dalai Lama. There are millions who testify to this effect of religion, whereas one would be hard put to find more than a few who say that science has brought similarly deep emotional fulfilment as a basis for how they live their life. Hence in regard to the search for meaning in our lives, I hold that religion forms a better foundation for our actions than science.

Finally, while it is a pervasive argument that science is provably factual and religion is less objectively so, we should ponder this question: is so-called scientific ‘fact’ really fact at all? This may come as a shock to 21st-century sensibilities, but a fundamental basis of scientific assertions is their falsifiability. All scientific claims are made with the readiness to be retracted in the presence of contradictory evidence in the future. One thinks of how Isaac Newton’s idea of absolute space – once considered to be fact – was debunked later by Albert Einstein’s General Theory of Relativity, which turned the foundations of physics on their head. Can anyone guarantee that Einstein’s theory will not, in the decades to come, be shown to be myth? The so-called ‘facts’ of science are really beliefs rooted in the shifting sands of constant theoretical challenge and empirical inquiry. Indeed scientists, if true to the spirit of science, do not advance any of their claims as absolute fact; religion, however, does. Absolute fact forms firmer grounds for deciding what one should do in life. The atheist would no doubt argue that the falsifiable claims of science are still more reliable than the baseless claims of religion. Well-known intellectuals like Carl Sagan deride religious adherents as following a belief without a shred of evidence. We should, however, not be overly narrow in our definition of evidence. The scientific paradigm – repeatable experiments, observation and measurement under pre-defined parameters – need not be the only paradigm through which we can derive truth. Speak to one or two hundred believers of different faiths, and you will hear many striking accounts of events in their lives that they believe were influenced by metaphysical forces such as God or karma – events that substantiate the claims of their scripture and cannot be explained by science or mathematics. For instance, a believer narrates that she prayed to God to reveal himself to her and guide her on which religion to follow. While asleep in a taxi, she is woken by an unexplained feeling of a tug on her arm. She awakes to see a place of worship outside the taxi with a banner that beckons her to come in and experience God. She then asks God for confirmation. That week a friend meets her for lunch, testifies to how God changed her life, and invites her to the very place of worship that she passed in the taxi. Testimonies like this abound among the religious. Science and mathematics cannot explain how this happened – indeed the probability of such an event happening by chance is minuscule. While there is no way to provide proof in as observable a way as science, in a laboratory, such events serve as quite objective evidence to religious believers in a way that often only each individual believer has access. We should not be too quick to dismiss religious beliefs as groundless or religious testimonies as delusional – indeed, we often have no proof of that.

Thus, it is my position that human action should be based primarily on scientific fact in areas where science provides relatively greater certainty than religion does – such as the treatment of physical illness – but in other domains of action where science does not possess this advantage, our path in life should be guided more by religion. Indeed, even in realms such as physical health, there is sometimes a case for choosing a spiritual rather than medical course of action. There are many testimonies to how prayer created what appears like a miracle when many medical therapies had failed. Even if the supposed ‘miracle’ does not materialise and the believer dies, he may do so happy in the belief that he is about to go on to a better place. Whether we are atheist or religious follower, we should keep our minds open to anything that has not been comprehensively falsified.