Some would argue that a longer life allows one to become wiser with the benefit of greater experience. They add that society too profits from the collective sagacity of a larger number of members in their 60s and older. For instance, older workers can guide their younger colleagues through challenging situations with their steady hand and perspicacity and grandparents are around longer to share their insights with their grandchildren. That being said, I have to question whether longer lives truly lead to wiser heads. If this were the case, then the wise men and women of today would overshadow their predecessors from generations past. But this is widely recognised to not be the case – even today, we often turn to the sayings and writings of Confucius, St. Augustine, Dr Sun Yat-sen, Machiavelli, Aristotle and other great thinkers, leaders and revolutionaries for guidance and enlightenment – no less often than we do the influential minds of today. Very few of these legendary thought leaders lived lives that would be considered long by today’s standards. I also question the value of vast experience in today’s world owing to the exponential rate of change driven by technology. Moore’s Law, which states that the number of transistors that can fit onto an integrated circuit doubles every two or so years, is a good representation of this accelerating change. A doubling of computing power every two years may not have much perceptible impact initially, when it is rising from a low base. However, when it crosses a certain threshold, it has seismic repercussions which then grow faster and faster in absolute terms. In recent years we have begun to see – and feel – the prescience of Gordon Moore. Job security has greatly diminished or even evaporated for hundreds of millions; social media has redefined the way we communicate with others and sometimes even our relationships; and whole industries from retailing to entertainment to medicine are being reshaped by robotics, big data and artificial intelligence. In such a context of exponential change, the lessons from the past become less and less relevant, and possibly even a liability. The longer we live, the higher our tendency to become attached to our familiar ways of doing things. Undoubtedly, there are highly adaptable seniors who are very willing to discard dogma and constantly acquire new ways of doing things but unfortunately, they are the exception rather than the norm.

The prospect of more and more octogenarians, nonagenarians and even centenarians looks even bleaker when we consider the ramifications for societies and nations. While it is unquestionable that human beings love their parents, the cold, hard reality is that the longer we stick around, the more we are likely to burden our children and also society and the state. The oft-prescribed solution of advancing the retirement age is a limited one, for reasons mentioned earlier: medicine is better at raising lifespan than healthspan, and the explosive pace of change in the world that makes it increasingly an uphill task for older workers to stay employable. As parents’ lifespans relentlessly extend, it takes a heavy toll on family finances, with heartbreaking results. South Korea, a society traditionally steeped in reverence for age, today has the highest elder poverty rate in the industrialised world at nearly 50 percent. A Channel NewsAsia documentary revealed that in Myanmar, impoverished families are discarding their elderly folk by the roadside. Increasingly, the onus will fall on the state to help the elderly, but state coffers even in the world’s richest countries are already straining to provide for the legions of retiring baby boomers, to say nothing of the expenses that are to come as retirees live longer and longer. Many experts have spoken of America’s “pension bomb”, as data from Bloomberg shows that half of American states have pension funding shortfalls of 25 percent or more. Illinois, for example, promised its employees US$199 billion in retirement benefits in 2015. It is US$119.1 b short.

Despite the apparent “miracles” of medical science, our improvements in longevity are not the fountain of perpetual youth – or quality of life, or employability. While I unreservedly acknowledge the utility of experiencing life’s joys, personal growth and a pursuit of self-actualisation that a longer life brings, it is most difficult to see these as adequate compensation for the extended years of poor health, suffering and indignity as well as the crippling effects on families and the state to the point that it may bring bankruptcy to many countries in the years to come – and with it, the looming spectre of a longer life for us today coming at the expense of the needs and happiness of future generations. Therefore, it is my considered opinion that longer life expectancy on balance is more a bane than a blessing to the human race. As scientists urge us to continue funding their relentless quest for yet another medical ‘breakthrough’, we will have to collectively engage in a very hard conversation about the desirability of extending our individual lives ever further into the horizon – and whether those resources would be better expended on other human needs and hopes.
