Imagine waking up one day with your wife of 32 years. “Good morning, dear,” you say with a smile, as you have every morning for over three decades. Her eyes narrow with suspicion and she asks, “Who are you?” This tragic circumstance – dementia – is one that befalls more and more people every year even as we celebrate the feats of science in concocting more and better treatments for illness and stretching out our sojourn on this increasingly less mortal coil. It is one of many immense costs that the human race bears – on individual, familial and societal levels – for greater longevity. As biological science strides on towards its likely tipping point into a Brave New World, it is imperative that we examine whether longer life expectancy is more a blessing or a bane. The problems wrought by the constant uptick in our years of life are, in my view, of such magnitude that they have preponderance even over the undoubtedly great advantages that they bring. Thus, I take the position that longer life expectancy does indeed bring us more difficulties than dividends.

It is not possible to deny the boost to the quality of many human lives that more time on earth bestows. Maslow’s hierarchy of needs is a formidable mountain to climb – and the more time we have, the better our chances of reaching the windy summit of self-actualisation. If we consider the typical example of a person born at the start of the 20th century, he would have had only about 40 years to pursue his aspirations as a human being. He would probably have had to marry young if he wanted to see his children’s 20th birthday, which would mean less time to pursue his formal education to empower himself. After the rigours of starting and supporting a family, he would have only at most 10-12 years to pursue other goals and interests. With such a short runway, it is difficult to even ‘find oneself’. Today, however, people live for 60 to 80 years in most countries. They can wait till their mid-20s or later to get married (and society is more open to the option of not marrying at all), and have more time before and after marriage to find the path in life that leads them to happiness. A young adult today is likely to have the luxury of trying out at least three or four different career paths, travel to many more places if he is of reasonable means, move on from bad relationships or marriages to better ones, and essentially explore life and find fulfilment.
However, the passage of the years is not always so kind. 

Medical science at this point is more adept at increasing our lifespan than our healthspan. It often keeps us alive but in a highly fraught condition where quality of life is, sadly, so poor that the individual may question if it is worthwhile to even go on living. Examples abound, from dementia to diabetes to kidney failure. All are epidemics that are sweeping across the world. Government statistics in Japan, for instance, project that the number of dementia sufferers over 65 is expected to jump from 4.62 million in 2012 to 7 million by 2025. Dementia rises in part because medical science has weaker ability to preserve the brain than the rest of the body – scientific understanding of the brain lags behind that of other organs, as the brain is by far the most complex part of our anatomy. Diabetes is caused by many factors but age is an important one. Kidney failure, which sometimes is brought about by diabetes, is on the rise and as it is difficult to obtain a legal transplant, most patients need to be on dialysis for many years – an excruciatingly painful procedure that lasts for four hours, three times a week. The indignities of ageing have always been with us, but a longer mortal existence prolongs and often aggravates them. It brings immeasurable physical and emotional pain to the aged, and immense heartache to their loved ones watching them suffer.

