It has often been said that pragmatism is Singapore’s governing principle. A minuscule island largely made up of immigrants that underwent a sudden metamorphosis into a nation when we were forced out of Malaysia in 1965, Singapore has always had to be unwaveringly practical-minded in order to survive in a tough world. Through this, we achieved what many around the world have termed an economic miracle and have become a respected player with an outsized influence on the world stage both diplomatically and economically. Along the way, we have had to compromise the environment at times, for instance producing substantial carbon emissions from our key manufacturing and aviation sectors, and clearing a large proportion of our rainforest to build homes, shopping malls, offices and warehouses. However, even in our times of most acute economic need, Singapore has never totally forsaken the environment and has made significant efforts to contribute constructively to global endeavours to protect the Earth, ameliorate our own environmental impact, and even find a complementarity between economy and environment. Thus, I am of the view that Singapore strikes a reasonably good balance between the economy and environment, but leans slightly towards economic imperatives in its decision-making.

It cannot be denied that this tiny country of 716 square kilometres with no natural resources needs to make certain compromises on environmental protection in order to feed its 5.54 million people and provide them with the high standard of living they have come to expect as citizens and residents of a First World nation. We have always had to pursue development in any industry in which we could carve out a relevance for ourselves in the world economy. When a country is so insignificant geographically that one needs a magnifying glass to find us on the world map, it cannot be too ethically delicate or idealistic in the economic choices it makes. Thus, we have built up some key industries that pollute significantly – tourism, aviation, shipping and manufacturing to name a few. In fact, one great irony in our economy is that even though we do not produce a single drop of crude oil, we are world leaders in oil rig building through Keppel Corporation and Sembcorp Marine. We are also a major oil refining and trading hub with a growing liquefied natural gas trading and storage industry. Our airport and seaport are among the busiest in the world and we attract some three times more tourists each year than the size of our resident population. Inevitably, all these activities either produce, or are complicit in producing, very large amounts of carbon emissions contributing to anthropogenic climate change.

However, Singapore has always tried to mitigate its adverse impact on the environment through a range of measures. The country’s leadership has shown fairly consistent awareness of the need to strike a balance. In fact, at the very beginning of our nationhood, our founding prime minister Lee Kuan Yew possessed the foresight to recognise that we needed to green our city-state in order to make it a pleasant, tolerable place to live. Thus, we planted thousands of trees and flowering plants throughout the country, earning the moniker of Garden City. This lush vegetation keeps our air clean despite the heavy vehicular traffic on the roads and industrial pollution. Since the time of Mr Lee, successive governments have continued to introduce policies to alleviate the strain on the ecosystem. In recent times, the government has sought to encourage the use of public transport as well as other environmentally-friendly modes of transportation such as cycling. The mass rapid transit (MRT) network has been steadily expanded as new lines such as the Downtown Line and Circle Line were added to the original North-South and East-West lines. Park connectors have been built as well as broad pavements with bicycle lanes have been developed in several estates including Tampines and Ang Mo Kio. As for those who insist on driving a car, the Carbon Emissions-Based Vehicle Scheme, which provides subsidies for fuel-efficient vehicles, has been put in place. Finally, we have cleaned up our rivers and they are no longer the fetid, repulsive dumps they once were but rather lovely places for a boat ride or a stroll. Thus, it is clear that despite the seemingly overwhelming need for economic realism, Singapore has made serious efforts to care for the environment.
