However, we should not let such relatively isolated occurrences obscure the fact that Singapore society prizes practical results even more than academic ones. It is the nature of this microscopic, natural resource-starved island nation to be ultra-pragmatic, and Singaporeans know more than anyone else that practical outcomes matter more than any textbook treatise. The very fact that scholars such as Mr Kuek and Mr Ng faced fierce public criticism makes it clear that the country as a whole places practical competence above intellectual skills. When public housing prices soared beyond the reach of many in the first decade of the 21st century, the former minister in charge Mr Mah Bow Tan faced considerable public opprobrium – not too many were heard mentioning his impressive academic credentials or the fact that he was a President’s Scholar then. Singapore society is also evolving to accept and even embrace a wider diversity of talents and paths to success than the traditional yellow brick road of academic excellence leading to a good job in government or a large company. Today, partly thanks to government efforts, those who do well in everything from sports to arts to cooking are well respected. 

Thanks to the commercialisation of sport, skills such as swimming and football can be seen as very practical today, and swimmer Joseph Schooling, who won Singapore’s first ever Olympic gold medal, is now one of the most respected figures in the country. Chan Hong Meng, a humble hawker who received a Michelin Star for his $3 chicken rice and noodles, saw his achievement celebrated by virtually the whole country, who also cheered as he took his signature dishes to Manila and London, receiving worldwide acclaim. Certainly, the likes of Hawker Chan, as he is fondly known, command greater esteem from society in this day and age than a person who has tremendous intellect but little practical success. This is all the more so as the traditional marker of intellectual skills – a college degree – becomes so common in Singapore as to become commoditized. In the 1980s, a mere 10 percent or less of the population held a bachelor’s degree or higher. Today close to half of those in their 20s and 30s have a degree, and the growth in professional, managerial and executive jobs has not kept up. As a result, graduate unemployment numbers have crept upwards and as mentioned earlier, a recent survey found that about a fifth of fresh graduates from even the highly rated state universities could not find a full-time job after six months. As Nominated Member of Parliament Kuik Shiao-yin articulated recently, what is important in today’s world is not just what degree one holds, but what one acquired from one’s degree programme – a personal network, knowledge, and yes, sharper skills. By that I assume she was referring to practical skills and not just intellectual ones. Increasingly Singapore society is coming to terms with the fact that the world is becoming more competitive, and few employers are going to give you a job merely for intellectual skills demonstrated in an exam. One must possess the aptitudes, know-how and problem-solving abilities needed to navigate an increasingly complex, volatile and interconnected world.

In sum, I stand by my stance that practical capabilities are at least as high a priority in Singapore as intellectual, academic attainments. A close examination of the issue in this country reveals that the national preoccupation on academic scores is overshadowed by its fixation on pragmatic results – which are much more correlated to practical ability. If one adds to that the inflation of grades and academic credentials, and the widening of the forms of achievement recognised by society, an inexorable trend towards increased emphasis on real-life skills becomes clear. After the euphoria or disappointment of an examination result ebbs, every Singaporean will be judged ultimately on what he or she accomplishes in the often inhospitable waters of real life. For this tiny island, practical success has always been not just a matter of glory, but of its very survival.
