A fascinating paradox for Singapore is that our lack of natural resources has made us very resourceful. It is this quality that has enabled us to find a complementarity between economic growth and environmental concerns, such that we engage in projects that bring benefits to both. In recent times, there has been a pressing need to both grow the economy and, with increasingly alarming reports of a warming planet, to care for Gaia as well – and Singapore is living proof that necessity is the mother of invention. Our showcase public park, Gardens by the Bay, is highly popular with tourists for its innovative design and horticultural technology, and yet a marvel of eco-friendliness with its beautiful trees and lush flowering plants. In fact, even our less glamorous public parks and even roadside trees have not only helped safeguard our environmental health, but played their part in boosting our economy as well. The clean air and outdoor lifestyle options that they provide gives us a major advantage over other major cities in terms of liveability. Take Hong Kong for example, another major financial centre in Asia which is generally seen as our biggest regional rival. It is perpetually plagued by air pollution, as are Beijing, Mumbai and Manila. Our outstanding air quality and concomitant high quality of life afford us a key advantage in the global war for talent, which is critical to our economic competitiveness as a small state. Thus, it is evident that for Singapore, the ostensible conflict between economy and environment is at times a false dichotomy.

Apart from pursuing eco-friendly initiatives on our fair shores, Singapore is also a constructive, committed and respected participant in regional and global efforts to solve environmental challenges. Our government invests heavily in technology and human resources to enable us to make an outsized contribution on the world stage. One example would be our role in managing the perennial smoke haze problem in Southeast Asia caused mainly by Indonesian plantation owners clearing land by burning. We have provided satellite data to the Indonesian authorities to help them pin down those responsible and sent our aircraft to aid in water-bombing operations. We have more than pulled our weight even on the highest stage in global environmental efforts – the United Nations climate change summits, notably the landmark conference in Paris in 2015. According to the Today newspaper, the Singapore team led by Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Vivian Balakrishnan worked tirelessly – often overnight – to act as an honest broker, particularly on the critical issue of differentiation. Singapore was able to perform this role because it is a well-respected nation, perceived as neutral and credible, and possesses strong skills in diplomacy. That we played an important part in achieving the historic climate deal in Paris – which binds all signatories to emissions cuts – is testament to the claim that we take the environment seriously and have struck a respectable degree of balance between economy and environment.

On the whole, it is my position that the demands of the economy and the environment are reasonably well-balanced in Singapore, as well as one could expect of a small nation not blessed with natural resources. Of course, we are some distance from being perfect in this regard, and are still responsible for a substantial amount of carbon emissions and deforestation, producing 4.32 metric tons of carbon dioxide per capita in 2011, according to the World Bank. But given our circumstances I contend that we have done a credible job. Our emissions are below those of most other developed countries such as the United States (17.02 tons), South Korea (11.84 tons), and France (5.19 tons). Pragmatic Singapore would do well to continue to devote itself to preserving Mother Earth – after all, our own survival as a low-lying island would be greatly imperilled by rising oceans.
