This, unfortunately, is only a superficial and myopic view. Words contain knowledge and wisdom, and these carry the greatest power that man can harness; all the greatest powers on earth ultimately stem from knowledge and wisdom. Military power is itself a function of economic power: to build and sustain military power, one must have a robust, sustainable economy. Weapons cost money, and armies must be fed. Economic power, in turn, is a function of knowledge and wisdom. To build prosperity, a nation needs to have a good command of economics, science and technology, even sociology and psychology as economic prosperity rests in considerable part on social cohesion and human motivation and mentality. Most of this knowledge comes from the written word. Consider the military aggression of Russia and its President Vladimir Putin, who seemed so Herculean as the Russian military intervened in the Ukrainian civil war in 2014 and brushed aside the Ukrainian government forces to annex Crimea. It seemed that all the condemnation of world leaders and economic sanctions were powerless to stop the crushing force of the Russian military juggernaut. However, Mr Putin soon met with a severe setback in the form of plunging oil prices, which his nation’s economy is overly dependent on. Faced with a nosedive in the value of the rouble and unbearable strain in the state of his government’s finances, Mr Putin is now struggling to keep his country economically afloat. Russia’s military power is not likely to be sustainable and even now has become very limited. Even after a whole year of fighting, the Russian military and its allies in Ukraine have still not been able to conquer Ukraine, a much smaller country. This sorry state of affairs is due to Mr Putin’s lack of economic knowledge: he did not understand the basic principle that commodity prices are volatile by nature, and that an oil-producing country needs economic diversification if it is to achieve long-term economic stability and wealth.

When one takes a still broader perspective, one should not fail to recognise too that the world has changed from the days when might was always right. After the indelible trauma of two devastating world wars, humanity has by and large come to the realisation that war is an unproductive, abhorrent way of solving problems. In the wake of World War Two, the United Nations was formed and with it, an increasingly established international law that the great majority in the world abide by today. For instance, the laws of national sovereignty. Today the vast majority of nations stand up for the sovereign rights of nations large and small, and we have a nascent sense of a community of nations who collectively enforce global norms on all. Hence the economic sanctions imposed by many countries, including the US and the members of the European Union on Russia and Iran have severely curtailed the economic, and therefore military power of these countries which have stepped out of line with international norms. Today a country’s might rests heavily on its political knowledge as well – its ability to win the global political acceptance and support of other countries. Failing which, it will be ostracised and severely weakened. This political knowledge comes from the pen, and not the sword.

In sum, I stand by my conviction that the pen is indeed mightier than the sword – a truth that endures through the ages and all the transformations engendered by science and technology. Ultimately, humanity’s greatest gift is the intellect, which can only be grown and nourished by the written word and the knowledge therein. Brute force without the buttresses of intellect is always proven to be a short-lived, grasping and superficial power, one that will be sooner or later be exposed and vanquished by a superior mind. In any case, civilised human beings should turn to military force only as a last resort. For it is a truth just as timeless that those who live by the sword, will die by it.
