When democracy is taken to extremes, governments have to constantly fight in the arena of politics and have therefore less time and energy to devote to governance, which is far more central to the well-being of the people. In a highly democratic country such as the US or India, the government is constantly fighting for its political survival and hence finds it very difficult to adopt policies for the long-term good of the country. The government is often unable to look beyond the next election. However, in a country like Singapore or China, the government is more entrenched and secure in its position, and thus finds it easier to plan for the long term. For instance, the Chinese government has carried out massive long-term projects to upgrade the infrastructure of the country, including close to 10,000 km of high-speed railway and modern water treatment plants. America may be a more developed nation than China, but its infrastructure is ageing and crumbling – many experts have criticised the decrepit state of its subway stations. The infrastructural development in China has propelled its economy to very high growth averaging 10 percent over the last three decades. Its economic growth is faster than India’s, and the average income in China is three times higher than that in India. While China’s infrastructure in some ways already surpasses that in many developed countries, India is notorious for regular power outages, even in major cities like Mumbai.

To be sure, it is highly desirable to have the rudiments of democracy, especially elections, as they engender accountability and transparency of government. Without accountability, a government would have absolute power, which is likely to lead to corruption and abuse. Democracy also promotes a basic degree of social equality as every member is conferred certain basic rights, such as the right to live and vote. However, too much democracy often leads to inefficient or even worse, dysfunctional government and mayhem in the country. Furthermore, democracy has certainly proven to be no bulwark against corruption. Among the more than 200 countries in this world, the great majority practise democracy, but most of these countries suffer from very significant, often egregious, corruption. Interestingly, Singapore – which many Westerners like to label a police state – ranks as the fifth most transparent country in the world in the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index, ahead of many more democratic countries such as the United States, Australia, Italy, France and Germany.

To conclude, I believe that efficient government is more important than democracy. What people want most is for the government to create the conditions in which they can have a comfortable quality of life, and find happiness; it is clear that democracy is highly overrated as a means to achieving these goals. Democracy can help if it is adopted in measured doses, but being the highly idealistic and emotive notion that it is, it is usually taken to excess and ends up hampering rather than aiding what Jefferson called “the care of human life and happiness”. As John Simon once said, “Democracy encourages the majority to decide things about which the majority is ignorant.” Ordinary people can be given some say in the running of a country, but for it to progress, you still need highly capable leaders to be firmly in command. A ship where thirty people are wrestling with the captain for the steering wheel is not likely to be successful in its voyage.
