Being a small state with no natural resources or strategic hinterland to fall back upon, my country Singapore has always had to be unwaveringly pragmatic in order to survive, let alone prosper, in this harsh and unforgiving world. In the early days of our independence and industrialisation, our government and schools focused heavily on STEM – science, technology, engineering and mathematics – to boost the value added per worker so that we could compensate for our geographical disadvantages. Between the 1960s and the 1990s, there was a strong perception that Science was the ticket to a good life, and the Arts were an abstract waste of time. Even now, that mentality has not totally disappeared. This emphasis on the sciences at the expense of the Arts led to Singapore being a cultural desert in the early decades, though the nation is now far more culturally vibrant. For the purposes of this essay, I shall define ‘irrelevant to their daily lives’ as being not important, useful or connected to the ordinary everyday activities and concerns of Singaporeans. As the Arts are critical to Singapore’s economic development and vital to the alleviation of stress and unhappiness in our everyday lives, I believe it is largely untrue that for most Singaporeans, the Arts are irrelevant to their daily existence.

Detractors of the Arts might put forth the contention that for a small, natural resource-poor country like Singapore, the people need to devote themselves to fields that yield more assured tangible economic returns, such as science, engineering, economics, law and so forth. The Arts, they assert, are merely an interesting and meaningful pastime at best, a frivolous distraction from practical concerns at worst. How would watching the angst and pathos of Shakespeare’s King Lear, for instance, put food on the table for the family? How would revelling in the splendour of the Singapore Chinese Orchestra help an accountant clinch a promotion, or keep a banker from getting laid off? On a national level, how would the multimillion-dollar investment in the resplendent Esplanade theatre enable the country to fend off fierce economic competition from larger economies such as China and the United States? Therefore, they claim, the Arts are of no concern to the everyday realities of a Singaporean.

This argument, unfortunately, fails to depict the world in holistic terms. The Arts, The Sciences, politics, economics, architecture – these, and more, are intricately connected to one another. In truth, the Arts are now critical to Singapore’s economic development. I say “now” because when we were a low-cost manufacturing nation at the start of our history as an independent nation in the 1960s, the Arts were of little, if any, importance to us economically – we needed only technical skills to carry out the instructions of foreign multinationals to manufacture slippers and transistor radios. Even into the 1990s, when we became a high-cost First World nation, the Arts were still of limited economic value to us as we were still mainly carrying out the instructions of foreign investors, just that we had moved up the value chain into manufacturing pharmaceutical and electronic products, and diversified into services such as banking. In the 21st century, however, countries with a lower cost base have closed, and are continuing to close, the skills and capabilities gap between themselves and Singapore. China and India each produce tens of millions of university graduates every year, and each year such emerging economies move higher and higher up the value chain while their workers demand a mere fraction of what Singaporean workers are paid. The Singapore government is concerned about a growing number of professionals, managers and executives being made redundant by companies that have moved their operations out of Singapore. We now cannot merely rely on our ability to carry out instructions and work according to received knowledge – we need to re-imagine, innovate, create if we are to stay competitive. For that, we need the Arts, which teach us to always look at things in new and interesting ways. This can enable us to make the quantum leaps in value needed to survive in a world of cut-throat competition. For instance, the home-grown food and beverage company The BreadTalk Group has opened over 800 bakery outlets across Asia with its artistic recipes, while health and wellness firm OSIM sells hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of imaginative health products such as massage chairs and fun workout machines throughout the world each year. The imaginative recipes and designs sold by these companies are forms of art too, and without them, we would not be able to achieve such leaps in economic value. If we did not have this artistic flair, more and more Singaporeans would lose their jobs to cheaper competitors overseas.
