Democracy is a word and an idea that whips up a great deal of emotion and idealism in people all over the world. While there is no perfect or universal definition of democracy, it is generally accepted that it refers to a political system in which all the citizens have a say in who governs their country, and how their country is governed. To most people, democracy is also a belief in the freedom of the individual to express his or her opinions and wishes freely in the form of free speech and even public protests and demonstrations. However, a problem that arises with democracy is that despite its lofty aspirations and ideals, it often does not deliver an efficient government, which this essay shall define as a government that is effective in delivering the positive long-term outcomes which most people desire, such as prosperity, stability and good health, with the resources that are available to it. In fact, many nations that are considered to be highly democratic are also among the poorest in the world, and their people have a very low quality of life. Examples would be India and the Philippines. Conversely, some countries that are either ruled by autocratic regimes, such as China, or only marginally democratic, such as Singapore, enjoy greater economic prosperity than India. While democracy brings many benefits, I believe that efficient government is more important than democracy. Thomas Jefferson once said, “The care of human life and happiness, and not their destruction, is the first and only object of good government.” What people want most from a government is that it should take good care of their needs, in other words, that it should be efficient. To provide the people with a high standard of living and quality of life, a government needs to be efficient in its administration of the country and its long-term strategic planning.

However, democracy often obstructs this goal, especially when there is too much democracy. When the voices of the people and the voices of politicians who claim to represent them grow too loud and strident, or worse, when the democratic liberties are taken to extremes and violence erupts, a country can be paralysed or worse, torn apart. The constant political wrangling and frequent policy gridlock in America illustrates this point well. When President Barack Obama sought to introduce healthcare reform in 2009, the Republicans bickered with Mr Obama’s Democrats so intensely and combatively that it took one whole year before both sides agreed on a healthcare plan. Even then, it was a heavily watered-down version of what Mr Obama had wanted as he had to make huge concessions to appease the Republicans, who controlled the House of Representatives. Ultimately, America’s healthcare system, which is widely regarded as broken and excludes tens of millions of Americans from access to medical treatment, did not get the thorough overhaul that it so badly needs. Even after the healthcare reform that was agreed on by US politicians, 30 million Americans are likely to be deprived of access to healthcare in the world’s richest country. Yet another example would be the massive political upheaval and turbulence in Thailand from 2008 to 2010. As Thais “enjoy” a high degree of freedom of assembly, protesters wearing red or yellow shirts, depending on which political faction they supported, staged massive rallies and even blockaded important public buildings such as the airport and parliament. Street rallies often turned violent and the streets of Bangkok descended into chaos and bloodshed. Hundreds were killed and thousands injured.

By contrast, some countries are less democratic but have more efficient governments capable of providing their people a higher quality of life. A prime example is Singapore, where the people enjoy only the rudiments of democracy, such as universal suffrage and a Parliament. Beyond that, Singaporeans are given hardly any freedom of assembly and very limited freedom of the press. The only place in Singapore where people are allowed to stage protests and demonstrations is the sleepy, quiet Hong Lim Park. If anyone takes his protest one step outside the park, he can be arrested. The country’s media are all government-owned and their content is quite tightly controlled. A single political party, the People’s Action Party (PAP), has dominated since independence in 1965. Currently it holds about 90 percent of the seats in Parliament. While the government allows everyone to vote and opposition parties to contest, it often creates a playing field that is not level, for instance by giving preference for estate upgrading to constituencies that support the PAP. Yet Singapore enjoys far greater prosperity than Thailand, as well as greater stability, safety and security. Singapore is a magnet for foreign investors who greatly appreciate these qualities; major multinational corporations including Procter and Gamble, Citigroup, Harley Davidson and Bayer invest billions of dollars setting up regional headquarters and research and development centres in Singapore, creating an abundance of jobs and wealth in the country. According to the CIA World Factbook, Singapore’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita, adjusted for purchasing power, is US$62,100, higher than that of America (US$47,200), France (US$33,100) and Sweden (US$39,100).
