It is worth adding that while most current affairs will be forgotten one day, not all of it will. The event you read about in today’s newspapers could eventually turn out to have deeply lasting significance in the history of your country or even the world. Consider the first ever win by a European football team in a World Cup held on South American soil, when Germany lifted the trophy in Brazil in 2014; or the Arab Spring protests that erupted and blazed across the Middle East and North Africa in 2011. Those sceptical of the value of current affairs may put forth the argument that most stories in the newspapers lack such enduring magnitude, but if we have no concern for current affairs, we will not be motivated to follow them – and we will then become unaware of the most momentous events of our times. We would be, in short, ignoramuses.

It is not only the obviously earth-shaking events that are worth our learning. Sometimes even a seemingly trivial event has significance because it adds to the bigger picture of one’s understanding of the world, and of life itself. Each little event is like a dot in our minds, and when we collect enough dots over time, we can join them, analyse them and gain that precious thing called insight. For instance, when one reads story after story about the misadventures of wealthy young socialites such as Paris Hilton and joins the dots, one may realise the perils of raising children in incredible luxury that stem from the potentially deleterious effects of excessive comfort on the character of a child. Even if you are very wealthy, then, you might decide to live in a fairly modest apartment instead of a 40,000 square-foot mansion with a swimming pool and four housekeepers – in the process raising a down-to-earth child with sound character who will be a source of great joy and pride for the rest of your life.

Even so, critics argue, the great majority of current affairs that we learn about have little or no practical value, whereas almost all the time we spend learning a practical skill such as computer programming or plumbing can definitely help us increase our earning power or solve more pragmatic problems. However, we should remember the timeless words of Martin Luther King Jr. “An individual has not started living,” he said, “until he can rise above the narrow confines of his individualistic concerns to the broader concerns of all humanity.” As human beings, one special quality of our species is our need and search for meaning in life. This meaning comes from being connected to others, to society and to a cause greater than oneself. Current affairs are the running narrative of humanity, and if we are a part of humanity, we must be concerned about them. Without this concern, our lives are stripped of meaning and we deprive ourselves of the highest fulfilment. Therefore, I hold firmly to the belief that as human beings, we must take a keen interest in current affairs because they give us the broad situational awareness that will optimally inform our choices in life to help us to achieve the best outcomes both pragmatic and symbolic. To divorce oneself from current affairs is to be like the frog at the bottom of the well in the Chinese idiom. One would dwell in the darkness of ignorance, and see only a tiny sliver of the majestic sky.
