Each of us leaves his or her footprint on this earth, a mark in the hearts and lives of others, for better or for worse. Some individuals, however, leave an extraordinarily large and profound legacy, to the extent that their names are forever inscribed in the hearts and minds of humanity. Some of their names are spoken of with love and reverence, names like Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr., Saint Joan of Arc. Others are uttered with horror, such as Hitler and Stalin. Still others attract a considerable amount of ambivalence, such as Napoleon and Mao Zedong. For the purposes of this essay, ‘influential’ shall be defined as causing a change in the life circumstances and thinking of people over a period of time. While the likes of murderous tyrants and merciless conquerors may seem to have left a more powerful mark on the story and minds of humanity, I believe that the most influential individuals in history are actually those who have brought the most good, as their influence on human behaviour and thinking is far more enduring; while those who wrought harm are remembered but have much less effect on human behaviour and thinking in the long term.

Detractors may argue that the likes of Hitler and Genghis Khan, who plundered foreign lands and killed millions, left the deepest imprint on human history. Hitler’s attempted genocide left six million Jews dead, and tens of millions more were slaughtered in the military aggression of Nazi Germany in Europe as they invaded nations such as Poland, France and Russia, and bombed Great Britain. The ocean of blood and canyon of loss they left in their wake are beyond human comprehension — who could fathom the loss of a million fathers, husbands and friends, let alone tens of millions? Who can comprehend the agony of many millions more wounded by swords, guns and artillery bombardments? There is little doubt that these conquerors have left their mark, and that their names will be remembered forever.

However, those who do the most good in this world leave a far more enduring legacy. Eventually when the grieving over the victims of tyrants and mass murderers has ebbed and generations come and go, people heal and move on with their lives. Tyrants are remembered only in name and for the wrong they did, but leave little influence on how people live their lives over the decades and centuries that follow. Those who do good, however, leave a message and a legacy that echo through the centuries. They inspire generation after generation to live their lives well and stand up for truth, righteousness and justice — among other worthy values and causes. Florence Nightingale has been the guiding light to millions of nurses around the world for over a century. The words of Martin Luther King, Jr., who fought for social justice in America, will touch the hearts of not only Americans but all of humanity, forever. “I have a dream that one day, even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the colour of their skin, but by the content of their character.” Dr King inspired a civil rights movement which has brought equal rights for African-Americans. He died for his beliefs, and his death will remain a symbol of courage and sacrifice forever. It will always resonate in the hearts of humanity and fill them with courage to face injustice wherever they may be. Hitler’s death, on the other hand, means nothing today.
