A playground for the rich. Disneyland with the death penalty. A vibrant city where East and West do meet. These are just some of the descriptions of Singapore by the world media over the years. My tiny city-island-nation of just 712 square kilometres rose from abject poverty in just three decades to become one of the most advanced and affluent nations in the world today. We have embraced globalisation and thrown our doors open to foreign talent and capital, and succeeded so emphatically that we now have the world’s highest concentration of millionaire households – at 17 percent. But beneath the shiny exterior of luxury condos and BMWs lies a darker reality: the poorer members of our society struggling to make ends meet. Our income inequality is now second highest in the developed world and social frictions have consequently risen. In order to achieve increased prosperity for all, we need not only to grow the economic pie but slice it more equally. This is exactly what the government is striving to do. Despite the immense challenges we face, I believe that Singapore has what it takes to achieve these goals with a high degree of success. Hence, I believe it is a very realistic goal for us to attain greater material well-being for the great majority of our population, but to do this for the entire society is an impossibility not only here, but anywhere in the world.

What gives me greatest confidence that we can grow the pie is the fact that we are the world’s second most economically competitive nation, according to the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report 2013. This is in no small part due to our clean and capable government, which has built the security, stability, infrastructure, strong rule of law and open economy that make Singapore a great place to invest and do business. This, together with the strong work ethic of the people, has made Singapore the wealthiest country in the world on a per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) basis, according to a study by Citi Private Bank and Knight Frank. Even though we no longer enjoy the 7-8 percent GDP growth of the past, our economy is still growing at 2-3 percent a year and continues to attract tens of billions of dollars in foreign direct investment a year, for instance, Rolls Royce’s aircraft engine manufacturing facility and Procter & Gamble’s regional R & D centre.

While Singapore has reaped the benefits of globalisation with its highly open economy, we are also constantly buffeted by the fierce and growing competition that it brings. Emerging economies like Thailand, South Africa and Brazil constantly nip away at our heels, climbing the value chain and threatening to eat our lunch. Many multinationals such as HGST, a US-based hard disk drive manufacturer, have closed or downsized their factories in Singapore to move to a lower-cost location. It is a constant challenge to stay ahead of the competition to even maintain the size of our pie, let alone expand it. But little Singapore possesses enduring competitive advantages that other countries find very hard to replicate. Besides the aforementioned clean and capable government, security and stability, outstanding infrastructure and strong rule of law, we are also free from natural disasters. A multinational can set up its headquarters or semiconductor plant here without fear that it will be shattered by an earthquake. Furthermore, Singaporeans are in the unique position of being fluent in both English and Asian languages such as Chinese, Malay and Tamil, and can thus act as an invaluable bridge between East and West. Hence, I have little doubt that we can continue to grow the economic pie.
