In addition to the great personages of history who have left moral lessons for humanity, there are also those who have contributed immense inventions, knowledge, insight, wisdom and beauty. These include the scientists, inventors, writers and philosophers. The Wright brothers invented the airplane which has enabled us to experience foreign lands and cultures more than ever before. The great philosophers have in many cases left us with immeasurable wealth of the mind in a single sentence. A case in point would Friedrich Nietzsche’s famous quote “In the mountains of truth, you never climb in vain”, which gives us courage to always keep on searching for truth in our lives and never be deterred. William Shakespeare’s words continue to captivate and provoke thought across the world, almost four hundred years after the Bard’s passing. Till today, his words are like what Frank McCourt called ‘jewels in [the] mouth”. When we recite or hear “There is a tide in the affairs of men, which/ Taken at the flood/ lead on to fortune/ Omitted, all the voyage of their lives is bound in shallows and in miseries/ On such a full sea are we now afloat/ And we must take the current when it serves/ Or lose our ventures”, we are not only enthralled by the gorgeous imagery, but also given the gift of wisdom — in this case to seize our opportunities in life.

There are those who argue that those who have caused the most harm leave a lasting influence in the sense that the horrors caused by their actions teach us to avoid repeating their mistakes. Humanity, argue this camp, has learned deep and indelible lessons from the perpetrators of these dastardly acts. For instance, some may assert that the memory of the Holocaust under Hitler’s reign will prevent humanity from repeating such an atrocity. That to me is naive. Evil, hatred and prejudice will continue to exist as long as there are men on this earth. Anti-Semitism, for one, has certainly not gone away — men like Hitler have simply been replaced by men like Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who once declared his intention to wipe Israel “off the world map” and has been remorselessly pursuing a nuclear programme that could potentially yield nuclear weapons. Good people inspire others to be good; evil souls do not inspire others to be less evil.

In conclusion, I believe the most influential individuals in history are those who have done the most good, and not the most harm. Those who have turned their lives into beacons of light will always provide guidance and inspiration to the generations after them, who keep the light shining as the values, ideas and wisdom they imparted are always relevant to humanity. Those who did good were enlightened beings who open the eyes of others; those who did harm were deluded, and only influence those whose eyes are closed. Eventually people’s eyes are opened, and the truth is revealed.
