Pandora of ‘Avatar’, Middle-Earth of ‘Lord of the Rings’ and Gotham City of ‘The Dark Knight’ epitomise what is at the heart of a good movie: the ability to immerse viewers into a fictitious world. The function of movies is to create a surreal experience starkly different from mundane reality, through visual depictions, in order to provide entertainment. Some superficial individuals might argue that the function remains as such, nothing more. However, there is so much more that films provide, apart from an escape from reality. On a deeper level, they have the ability to touch us poignantly, impress upon us fresh perspectives, and even influence our attitudes and behaviour. 

Films have the power to capture and to inspire. Films, through impressive visual displays and state-of-the-art cinematographic technologies, create a surreal experience of ethereal beauty. Such feast for the eyes allows individuals to become immersed in a fictitious world, distanced from dull reality. The ability of films to imagine and create what is different from daily life gives it a unique position — an escapade and respite for stress from the fast-paced hustle and bustle of modern cities. Envision the pristine idyllic fields of Shire in Middle-Earth, the biolumiscent flora and fauna of Pandora and the breathtaking, boldly imagined technologies that defy gravity found in the surreal dream world of ‘Inception’ — they all seem to transport us to another world. The few hours in the cinema removes one from reality and allows one to revel in the fantastic world-building done by the director, through a myriad of senses being engaged. Evidently, graphics are a defining feature of films, ostensibly suggesting that the most important and primary function of films would be to provide an escapade through engaging viewers’ senses. The biggest prize of any film lies in the sheer grandeur and majesty of the big screen. Recent years have seen a further advancement, from 3-dimensional display to IMAX images to Dolby Atmos Audio Technology, further adding to the experience where everything seems to come alive and surround viewers. The biggest progression in films across years is visuals; it clearly shows that the priority of films is to provide a transcendent experience — one that makes us momentarily forget the world we live in and instead revel in another imagined world, thereby offering a sanctuary from the distressing issues of reality.

However, fiction and graphics are but a facade; films often have far deeper and more meaningful messages and lessons to convey beyond all the action and effects on screen. This is precisely because the impact of films reaches beyond its short span of a few hours, to influence an individual. In fact, it would be acute to realise that important lessons and moral instructions leverage on the impactful delivery of films to transmit and become entrenched in viewers. The entertainment created probably generates a far more positive response towards cliché ideas of moral values. ‘The Dark Knight’ by Christopher Nolan, shows how Bruce Wayne (Batman) selflessly dedicates his life to the protection of Gotham City. His unconditional sacrifice, compassion and tenacity in face of setbacks are not just traits of a legendary hero, but also important values that should be inculcated in the everyday man. Viewers are propelled to emulate this impressive and endearing character, thereby fulfilling the role of this film in relating important values. Even in a world of fiction, films go beyond that visual joyride to deliver powerful messages. ‘The Legend of Korra’, an animated series, also emphasises Korra’s commendable strengths and virtues. It sends a strong idea that the confident, undaunted, and charismatic lady on screen can be anyone as long as they choose to trust in themselves and persevere on. Similarly, the various Disney films ‘Finding Nemo’, ‘Brother Bear’ and ‘Frozen’ underscore how values such as loyalty, friendship, determination and a willingness to confront the unsavoury, form the indispensable recipe for success and happy endings. Once again, it is highly evident how it simply does no justice to reduce the role of films to a mere escape from reality, while forgetting its powers to inspire and touch lives.
