A country that fails to open its economy and integrating itself into the global economy is likely to be setting itself up for poor economic growth. Without any economic relations with the outside world, the economic activities of that country are limited to its own territory only. An example would be China before its opening up to the world in 1978. Before 1978, China was a closed economy and there was hardly any import or export of goods and services. Inflation was rampant and the Chinese suffered economically due to mass unemployment. After opening up, the economic policies implemented by Deng Xiao Ping promoted economic activities with other countries and subsequently foreigners started to invest in China. Jobs were created and the economy became increasingly prosperous even till today. China’s entry into the World Trade Organisation also allowed China’s GDP to grow by double digit each year in the 21st century. The comparison between the time before China opened up and after it has integrated itself into the global economy showed us that isolation from the global economy is detrimental to a country’s economic stability.

A country that fails to discuss regional issues with other countries may be setting itself up for political instability. When a country does not have the alliance and cooperation from countries to discuss issues of importance, it may be creating enemies for its own government as the country is often regarded to be irresponsible and anti-social. An example would be North Korea’s refusal to go to the negotiation table for nuclear weapons. After its testing on missiles, countries such as China and USA have been persuading it to have a meeting with them to voice out their concerns and discuss plans for control of nuclear weapons. However, North Korea refused and stated that they have no obligation to do so. This issue has created tension among the countries in the region and further worsened the impression and relations North Korea has with the rest of the world. The stubbornness of North Korea to cooperate with other countries has caused its government’s image and reputation to tarnish severely and it can be predicted that the government will meet challenges and pressure from the other countries regarding the legitimacy of their rule over North Korea.

A country that fails to accept new ideas into its society may risk having social instability in the long run. When a country limits the interaction of its country with other countries for vested interest, dissatisfaction and angst may spread among the people. One such example can be seen from the situation of the East European countries during the Cold War under the rule of Communism. During the Cold War, their governments restricted their citizens’ communication with the democratic Western Europe in these communist states. They were not allowed access to goods from Western Europe for fear of ideological contact with democracy. The people then suffered economically due to inferior goods and most importantly, they suffered psychologically due to their desire to break out of communism. Their anger and desperation resulted in a revolt against their governments, with the fall of Berlin Wall signifying the fall of Communism in 1989. This historical event has proven that when a country fails to integrate itself with the other countries and fall back behind in terms of standard of living, it is causing tension in society to accumulate and eventually the social instability will lead to the downfall of the government.