Our relentless and frenetic efforts to stay ahead of the economic curve, however, take a considerable toll on us mentally. Hence, Singaporeans are under immense mental stress, which the Arts play a vital role in alleviating. Singaporeans’ working hours are among the longest in the developed world – 2,287 hours a year, according to the Federal Reserve Economic Data website. Many feel overwhelmed by work or studies and neglect their families. The Arts can relax the mind and help protect Singaporeans’ mental health. For instance, thousands of Singaporeans head to the beautifully designed Gardens by the Bay every month to free their minds from the shackles of work and lose themselves in the creative landscaping in the sprawling gardens which feature everything from Chinese to Indian gardens with statues of various sizes. At the President’s Star Charity in 2014, the Japanese Zen dancer Miyoko Shida-Rigolo enthralled the audience with her incredibly peaceful, tranquil and delicate act of balancing an intricate lattice of long branches – it was an artistic act that resonated with many Singaporeans as it taught us the concentration needed to find peace and tranquillity in the chaotic world of the 21st century. The Arts are vital to our everyday mental well-being.

The intense rat race not only makes us stressed – it also deprives Singaporeans of arguably the most precious goal in human life: happiness. Singaporeans were ranked the least positive and most emotionless people in the world in a Gallup poll in 2012. However vehemently Singaporeans may deny the truth of these polls, a close observation of its people in day-to-day life here would suggest there is more than a grain of truth. Cynicism and negativity abound, manifesting themselves in a never-ending stream of complaints about all kinds of petty imperfections such as a brief delay in train service. Emotionless faces fill the streets, and when a supermarket cashier says, “Thank you” to a customer, very few thank her in return. We need the Arts to bring us positive emotion and help us find beauty in our everyday lives. Whether it is experiencing the uplifting words and melody of The Sam Willows’ ‘Glasshouse’ or the solace found by sufferers of mental illness in the Necessary Stage’s acclaimed play ‘Off Centre’, the Arts can re-sensitise us to our emotions and help us see the bigger picture in life that lies beyond the chase for material success. It can help us discover the meaning in life that we will not find in the money and titles we are conditioned from young to pursue. This meaning must be found in our daily lives. As Margaret Bonnano once said, “It is only possible to live happily ever after on a day-to-day basis.”

Sceptics might assert that the Arts are too high-brow for most Singaporeans, who in their pragmatism chose not to study the Arts and humanities in school as these subjects are reputedly “difficult to score in”. These sceptics often point to the high proportion of foreigners in the audience at artistic events such as the Laneway Music Festival and Art Stage. However, this is to ignore the fact that not all art is high-brow. All art, even the simplest, can bring us all the benefits mentioned above. Indeed, even a simple crayon drawing by a child is art as well, and can bring us joy or solace. Architecture, too, is an art and Singaporeans of all levels of artistic literacy can revel in the beautiful design of the Marina Bay Sands integrated resort. Our subway stations on the Circle Line often feature elegant or breathtaking artworks, such as the multi-coloured mural at Serangoon station and the thrilling sports-themed illustrations at Stadium station. Highly accessible art increasingly fills the everyday spaces of Singaporeans and brings not only economic benefits by attracting more tourists and foreign talent to Singapore, but also joy to our everyday lives. In sum, the Arts are filled with tangible and intangible value, and therefore full of relevance to the everyday lives of Singaporeans. Without the Arts, not only would Singaporeans find it extremely difficult to cope with stress and find the deepest fulfilment and greatest joy – they might even find themselves reduced to economic irrelevance, unable to meet even their most basic daily needs. After all, we should not forget that making a small country succeed takes ingenuity and inventiveness – which are the very essence of Art.
