Often, reality can be haunting and instead of shying away from it to show fiction, films can give a perceptive look at problems beleaguering mankind and society. In doing so, they get viewers to confront the problems of reality rather than escaping. This has a paramount importance of raising awareness and even galvanising viewers to press for change and address these issues. Through films, the issues are presented in a less didactic manner, thereby letting people be more receptive and willing to act since it stems from genuine fervent emotions. ‘X-Men’ is a case in point; on the surface it’s an action science-fiction movie, but underneath the flashy display is a comprehensive criticism of discrimination. The mutants are condemned and mercilessly persecuted simply because they are different. Intolerance and fear of what is different has drove people in the film to irrationally feel threatened and unleash the dark side of their nature. This resonates resoundingly with our world where many face the savage blade of systemic discrimination, from homosexuals in Syria, to the Rohingya people in Myanmar, to women in rural India. In ‘X-Men’, viewers are probably more inclined to empathise with and support the mutants since they are the protagonists, and this can translate into a poignant desire to champion the cause of victims of discrimination. Similarly, ‘Spirited Away’ by Hayao Miyazaki, who is no stranger to infusing his works with hidden symbolic content, confronts the tenebrous issue of child prostitution by demonstrating its egregious and deleterious nature. The protagonist in her journey also shows the perils of youths growing up and realising the brutal realities of the world — this invites viewers to reflect upon the state of societies today, and perhaps mend the dearth of compassion and kindness. Even ‘Avatar’ itself, through the appeal of Pandora’s magical forest and inhabitants, is essentially addressing the problem of environmental degeneration by human beings and convincing viewers the importance of preserving what is natural and beautiful, that is our earth. Films’ potent function of inspiring action against problems proves their worth lies beyond a mere escapade.

Furthermore, films are often microcosms of reality by being a repository of historical occurrences and rich cultural diversity. Instead of simply depicting an artificial world, they can reflect the very world we live in. Films are essentially an archive to record events across the passage of time, except that they acutely contain not just facts, but also the overwhelming emotions that transpired. Through them, the zeitgeist of a time and volksgeist of a people are profoundly portrayed. Having such an instrumental role indubitably stands testament to the importance of films beyond mere entertainment. ‘Schindler’s List’ by Steven Spielberg, for instance, highlighted the atrocities and callous carnage that happened in the Holocaust. The horrors, despair and utter abomination of the event was depicted. Through the film, the Holocaust was not a simple statistic of 6 million deaths but an iniquitous and dark phase of human history. Such a brilliant film was one of the few able to do sufficient justice to the immense gravity of the event, through a chilling and heartwrenching portrayal. In the same fashion, ‘Saving Private Ryan’, having won five Academy Awards, conveys the brutal realities of war by showing the devastation and desperation from the perspectives of American soldiers. The unyielding camaraderie in the movie underscores the unspeakable sadness in loss and sacrifice. It was a film that managed to strike at the core, something that other forms of historical records have trouble accomplishing. Films even in entertaining us, tell a story of human struggles and experiences. Through films, we are given an invaluable glimpse into events that have taken place and long past in our world. In fact, history is often turned into content for films and that certainly give films a unique role as a compendium detailing historical events and the atmosphere that was present. Therefore, as the examples demonstrate, possessing such a unique ability in capturing not just the facts, but also the tapestry of history and its events renders films way more than mere entertainment.

Films also skilfully encapsulate ideas of the human condition and human psyche. All films speak volume about human nature and tendencies; they help us better understand ourselves and our struggles. These complex concepts are elegantly expressed in films because of their preeminent ability in portraying human beings and the intangible. Hence, through films, we are not simply enjoying a trip out of reality, but instead experiencing a journey of discovery as we develop more self-awareness and maturity. Even when we cannot really grasp our psyche, films have the power to effectively elucidate it and get to the heart of the issue. One of Pixar’s most innovative films, ‘Inside Out’ is widely-acclaimed for its deep themes. In personifying the different human emotions, the convoluted emotional struggles are greatly simplified. ‘Inside Out’ literally exposes the human mind and chart the process of depression and its cure. It rectifies our erroneous thinking that depression is conquered by a tug of war between happiness and sorrow; instead, it involves confronting the sadness and undergoing a cathartic process in order to dispel the negativity and move on. The fight against depression starts with a willingness to confront and accept sadness, thereby opening up the valves of regenerative healing. ‘Inside Out’ efficaciously weaves deep themes into its simple plot, epitomising the importance of films to portray and facilitate understanding. Likewise, ‘Black Swan’ featuring Natalie Portman, reveals and warns of the dangers of excessive stress and unhealthy obsession leading to a complete emotional collapse in us. The Black Swan symbolises the dark side of human nature which takes centre stage and wrecks havoc when an individual’s natural emotional and psychological processes are overturned. The film educates viewers on a nuanced understanding of our own psyche. From the above examples, it is clear that films are so much more than just fiction because they can capture reality and deep ideas in a way that reaches new heights. In essence, it seems the je ne sais quoi in films lie beyond the domains of mere visual displays after all. The value, importance and role of films is to use the storyline and graphics as mediums to poke at something deeper. Be it life’s lessons, societal problems, historical events or human nature, the wide span of content stands testament to the irreplaceable function of films to touch emotions, provoke thoughts and change behaviour. Thus, it would be blinkered to contend that films only have one role and only one; films are a treasure chest full of meaning if only we look.
