The implication that the quest for equality of the sexes is hopeless is not one that can be simply accepted as the truth. Although not many breakthroughs have been made by feminist movements lobbying for equality, there are many small indicators that show that society is already setting the foundations for bigger change ahead. More importantly, these signs show that the search for equality is not one that is futile as many recognize the need for it and are responding. An important example would be the positive discrimination in the workplace today. In some instances, when men and women are equally qualified for jobs, the opportunity is given to the woman to make up for the male domination in the field and to allow the woman to break out of the stereotype society dictates by providing her capabilities. This is an encouraging example of how male-dominated industries are willing to make small compromises to accommodate the growing number of women who want to liberate themselves from traditional roles by providing them equal opportunities to gain respect and recognition.

When measuring the possible success of a venture, it is necessary to take into account the psychological conditioning behind it. For this reason, education is key. Education is the tool with which men and women across the globe can be empowered with to work towards gender equality. By educating women, they will be able to acquire the knowledge and skills they require to survive. More importantly, education can be used to influence young minds and help them understand the need for gender equality and the benefits it will bring. In a country such as Singapore, education is a deep and pervasive tool to spread the message of equality amongst people of different races and religions. A similar approach can be taken on the subject of gender equality, to eliminate some sexual stereotypes. As long as young minds are trained to think of either gender as equal, and society reinforces this view, the pursuit of equality is one that has hope for success.

Some may think of the pursuit as futile as the mass media and tradition seem intent on shackling society to its current state. The mass media, a powerful influencing tool, repeatedly portrays women as the weaker gender, needing perpetual support and attention. The marketing adage “sex sells” also becomes a hurdle, as women are portrayed simply as bodies used to service men only to be discarded afterward. A series of advertisements by beer company Guinness featuring scantily clad women only serves to prove this point. Tradition also holds some societies back from enforcing gender equality. For instance, in China, newborns are sometimes killed when they are not the preferred male gender. In Arab societies traditionally, women’s education comes only after men’s. The message sent by such actions is clear; gender equality doesn’t exist. Unless this myth is shattered completely and beyond doubt, it will be difficult to establish gender equality permanently and holistically. Fortunately, there is hope in this area as these stereotypes can be eliminated by giving women more respect and value.