Economically, hard work has been the foundation of success for many. C.K. Tang’s story about arriving in Singapore with nothing but a bit of cloth to sell has often been told. And his rags-to-riches tale is not unique. What is common in all these tales is the fact that the people involved all worked extremely hard. However, not everybody who works hard is guaranteed such success. Furthermore, in some cases, hard work may not he needed at all. During the dot.com craze in the mid to late 90′s, 60 millionaires were being created a day. Yet few of those dot.coms had a sound business plan or idea. Amazon.com, one of the biggest dot.coms around, never posted a positive quarter, yet Jeff Bezos is now one of the richest people in the world.

Hard work is also not the only thing required for success. Nowadays, image also plays an important role. In America, it has been statistically shown that balding men are less likely to get a promotion, while short men and fat women are less likely to be hired. Thus, while a person may work hard, he also needs to complement his hard work with a presentable image. Similarly, it has been shown that people with better emotional quotients (EQ) are more likely to succeed. In politics particularly, image is now arguably the most important factor. In the recent United States Presidential Election, Al Gore’s role as Vice-President, and his hard work in helping steer America to record-breaking levels of economic growth counted for nothing, as George W. Bush managed to beat him, by projecting a friendlier image than Al Gore. Thus, hard work in this case was clearly not enough.

In the field of sports, hard work is also not necessarily enough. While hard work does not hurt, the best in the world often require some natural talent in their field. A football player with poor psychomotor skills will find it difficult to reach a high level of sporting achievement. Perhaps the most evident example of hard work not being enough is in the reality show Survivor. In the show, the ones to be voted out were often those who worked the hardest, while those who won tended to be people who would backstab their team-mates, or even their allies.