With the increasing connectivity, Singaporeans are exposed to many media platforms that transmit information about global issues, such as television, radio, the Internet, newspapers and magazines. This has allowed many here to be more globally aware, and to keep in touch with current affairs around the world which may or may not affect us. Nonetheless, this phenomenon has since removed us from the close-mindedness that many societies face, especially in developing countries. The Democrats’ nomination campaigns for their potential presidential candidates, for example, have been closely followed by many Singaporeans, due in part to wide coverage in news media. This has resulted in Singaporeans even being able to be part of this electoral process, endorsing candidates of their own whether it being the frontrunners Obama or Clinton, and experiencing a part of the political process that many young Singaporeans have never experienced before. The outpouring of compassion as seen by the many generous private donations to aid disaster victims of the Sichuan earthquake or Cyclone Nargis in Myanmar is also testament to the nation’s civic- mindedness in the global arena. Such is the extent of globalisation that has allowed our people to be aware of various global events, and even partake of this experiences that these provide.

On a lighter note, many in Singapore have also been part of a different global cultural experience. With connectivity, knowledge of consumer culture has also descended upon our shores, seen by the many savvy consumers who are very in touch with fashion trends and imported waves. So strong is this fascination that many world-renowned retail outlets have set up flagship stores here, as seen in the clothing label Gap having set up one here as well as luxury goods retailer Louis Vuitton. While these may seem superficial and possibly scoffed at by detractors who will argue that this has nothing to do with globalisation, it has to be noted that many anthropologists and sociologists deem consumer culture as perhaps one of the largest determinants of the extent of globalisation, given that the desire to possess and own something is very human in nature. Hence, surprisingly, it is our voracious shopping culture, which especially takes a shine to our imported goods, that has increased our “global quotient”, and perhaps may qualify us to be at least semblances of a global citizen.

One also begins to realise how cosmopolitan and global we really are as a country. Besides consumer culture that has been assumed into our very own, our local community carries many international flavours too. Many expatriates have increasingly flocked to our shores naming safety, cleanliness, stability and the largely global culture here as the main draws, persuading many multi-national corporations to set up regional headquarters here. This may be seen by the burgeoning educational institutions here such as the Tanglin Trust and the Australian International School, that have begun to hunt for local opportunities, and the Global Indian International School campuses. Even local schools have become quasi-international schools, such as MacPherson Primary School which boasts many nationalities studying there, as more expatriates bring their families over. It is perhaps these growing communities of foreigners in Singapore that have contributed to the global mind-set that we possess today, as we begin to shake off our colonial past and become more accepting of other cultures, and even religions. Perhaps, government policy like that of the promotion of facial and religious harmony and the gracious acceptance of foreign talent into our shores has helped us to become people with cosmopolitan mind-sets.