Cultural and heritage sites seem to have lost their economic relevance as the push for modernisation has placed much emphasis on economic prosperity and development over the intangible value of cultural preservation. As such, the conservation of cultural and heritage sites will mean the lost in opportunity to improve further the economy of the country. Therefore with the focus of a country is to have a good economy to ensure the livelihood of its people, cultural and heritage sites may have lost their relevance if it does not bring any economic benefits. For example, given Singapore's recurrent problem of land scarcity, there is tight regulation by the local authorities to decide the purpose of land allocation for different purposes be it commercial or residential as every land I available can be of importance to help create a hub that will help improve the economy of Singapore.

In spite of the fast-paced modernisation, the relevance of cultural and heritage sites did not diminish accordingly from the economic perspective. The unique cultural, scientific or sentimental values they bring can help to increase tourist in the country which will help bring more economic activities to the country. For instance, Greece a country that has many cultural and heritage sites, tourism is seen as their lifejacket as tourism is Greece's biggest foreign earner, the mainstay of an economy that has otherwise contracted by 27% since late 2009. As such, cultural and heritage sites can still be relevant in helping to propel the economy of a country as they are not something that is available in every country since each country has they're own unique cultural and heritage sites which will make them a tourist attraction.

From a historical perspective, cultural and heritage sites have lost their relevance as these sites hold memories of the past that may not hold any meaning in the present or future. As a result, the sites may end up being just unnecessary buildings that does not bring any value to anyone. Furthermore, if the memories the cultural and heritage sites hold negative memories to sites, it will only result in people getting consistently reminded of bad memories which does not bring any benefits to the country or its people. Therefore, such historical sites have lost their relevance as they can be deemed a thing of the past that does not belong in the present or future.