However, the information we learn in school is restricted to what is available in books. Often times, students have to seek other sources to find out more than what teachers are teaching in school because even in schools, there are restrictions in how much teachers can do since there is very limited time. Recently, schools have even started adopting flipped classroom learning, where students learn online from videos teachers may have recorded of them teaching the lessons, so that students can learn from anywhere. On a larger scale, schools sometimes have e-learning days, where students learn their lessons and do all their homework from home. This thus means that students can learn without school, and that as the world is becoming modernised, teachers are making use of the technology to allow students to learn at a more customization pace such that students can take their time to go through the lessons so that they can continue to keep up and understand lessons. There are even places such as Khan Academy which run free online courses and lessons for students so that they can learn anything they are interested about. Hence as students do not need to go to school to get information, school is no longer a key to overcoming ignorance.

In addition, school cannot overcome cultural ignorance as organisations does it better. In school, the school is limited to just special days such as Chinese New Year, Hari Raya, Deepavali, and racial harmony day to allow students to understand more about racial and cultural differences. In school, students do not get to mix around with people of different races as much too, especially if the school is a Chinese-based school or a christian school, were there would be very few minorities. On the other hand, organisations such as National Integration Council and OnePeople.sg encourage people of different races to understand each other and to interact so that there is no cultural ignorance. For example, OnePeople.sg organises the Orange Ribbon Walk to promote respect, understanding and trust between people of different races.

Also, students cannot fully understand the economy simply by reading about them from books and learning about them in school. For something as complex as the econmy, students may learn better through experience. This can be done by them visiting the different industries. With the discovery of airplanes, people can now fly from country to country to look at their economic state, and can even get to see first hand things taught in textbooks for example the sweatshops in China and India, or how a drought in a certain place may cause a drop in goods and hence increase in the cost of that certain good. It is also only through buying goods online do they understand ideas such as why there is no longer a need to have a physical shop, and why it is cheaper and perhaps better to just sell things online, because they get to experience the convenience and the ease of buying things online from the comforts of their own home. These are things that may not be able to be taught well. Hence, school is taking the back seat in overcoming economic ignorance.