Schools will always be a relevant institution for education if the consideration of the functions of the education is broadly defined and one such function is seen in how schools act as moral compass for the individuals. Although we can observe how social media platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Google search engine are being used to propagate messages and videos to convey proper social values and conduct to the youths as it is the common source of media contact for the youths and the storyline of the video in its visual and oral presentation is more appealing to the youths, technological advancements that make these forms of promotion of moral values still inappropriate for the youths. Moral education inculcated by the school teachers will be influential and impressionable as teachers act as role models for the students and schools are nursery ground for development. Since 1991, civics and moral education has been introduced in Singapore education system and has been playing a critical role in shaping the youths and the people should be pleased to know that our youths have outdone in being gracious as compared to other generations in the gracious index conducted by the Singapore Kindness Movement. Obviously, we can credit our education system for playing a vital role in forging the moral development of our youths which cannot be replaced by technological advancements.

Schools will still be the main source of cultural development which cannot be replaced by technology despite its extensive influences on cultural heritage. Over the past years, technological advancement in communication, media and transportation have exposed people of different countries about different cultural experiences and it is also used by activists to promote their own cultural heritage as seen by the digital presentation made by Culture Academy. However, schools are the mainstream of cultural education as they are institutions that can promote ‘culture as a pillar of sustainable development’ as stated by Mr Baey Yam Kim, parliamentary secretary for culture. Cultural heritage cultivated by the schools will bring about an in-depth impression for the students as it will be a source of reference where the knowledge of the cultures will be taught through a nurturing process with the aids of the teachers and institutional process of the school.

Scientific and technological development may be able to expand the knowledge of the students as they expand the source of information the students may need to learn and alter the ways that students learn in this technological era. Students live in the days and age where knowledge transmitted to them is often done in a visualized, audio and interactive format which can be attained from multiple social media and educational platforms. However, we cannot ignore the significance of social interactive process of the schools where students can benefit from discussion with peers and academic guidance from the teachers. In this learning process, creativity, language expression, interactive and co-ordinating skills are cultivated from the class activities like project work which cannot be achieved through technological development. These personal skills to be developed by schools and its learning environment is not replaceable and replicable by technology to make school becomes less relevant.