The importance of family in our society can also be seen when we understand how a family can help to upkeep the morality of the society. A family contributes greatly as it is the nursery that cultivates morally upright individuals to shape the civic values of the society. Members of the family are nurtured with moral values like respects for others since young and these values help to shape the various members of the society. Although some educators may argue that school is the social institution that has a more significant role to play, no one can deny the contribution of the family. We can see how some dysfunctional families have contributed the rise of juvenile delinquency; underlining the importance of the educational role the family can play in this aspect.

Economically, each family makes great contribution in many aspects. As the source of labour supply and consumption, each family ensures that the economy attains the necessary manpower and the consumer market to propel economic growth. The formation of new families will create consumer needs that the industries will try to satisfy and this new demand will generate production and employment, raising national income and standard of living. By encouraging the formation of families, the nation will be ensure of more future taxpayers, which will help to ease off the strain on public expenditure, especially when most developed nations are experiencing a greying population. This explains why many developed nations are striving to increase its population growth by encouraging marriages and then, birthrates.

Besides its economic importance, a family is the root of the nation. Linking its people to the family and establishing this link to the society help to forge the creation of a national identity. With extensive migration and the rise of globalisation, more people are leaving the country to look for more opportunities and acquire more knowledge. The root to the family will forge the essential link between the nation and her people and this is certainly agreed by our government.