Another environmental disaster is a result of what the market consumers have created – the extinction and endangerment of animals. While poachers and private businesses clamour to meet the demands of consumers, they have caused various species of tigers and foxes to be reduced to being endangered species. While polar bears are not yet under that, they might soon join them. With polar caps melting due to the rise in temperature, there have been many reports of polar bears and other mammals drowning from exhaustion when they could not find land to rest on. Instead of rising to protest against green house gas emissions, there are people who actually believe these are coincidences which should be ignored. While environmentalists and politicians like Al Gore are petitioning to save the planet, there are many who mock them through forums and the Internet.

Well-intentioned organizations are partially to blame for their incompetence and inefficiency as well. Despite having regular meetings such as the APEC World Summit, they are consistently forming vague conclusions like “will take a step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions”. While many private organizations are petitioning, and funding these environmental conservation campaigns, these international environment conservation groups have yet to make any significant impact.

Another environmental disaster that happens frequently is oil spillage. Petrol companies as well as the military are to blame. In 1991, the Gulf War oil spills were the worst in history with an estimated 1.5 million tonnes of crude oil dumped into the sea. The environmental implications were disastrous as many forms of sea life perished and its lingering after-effects can still be observed a decade later. The toxic vapours killed marine life while the oil poisoned the birds when it was ingested by accident. The worst part of all was that the oil spillage was intentional. The countries along the coast dumped tonnes of crude oil into their waters in an attempt to deter US marine ships from entering their habours. The oil slick was 4 inches thick for miles, and the wildlife there has never recovered since. This shows that politics have a part to play in environmental degradation.