Prima facie, it does appear that with favourable technological and social changes in today’s world, the eradication of global poverty could be easily achieved and the fact that widespread poverty persists signals a grand embarrassment to mankind. Indeed, technological advancements achieved in the past few decades serve to augment world productivity and enable broad-based improvements in standard of living, hence setting a favourable condition for the elimination of poverty. Characterised by high-yield variety of crops, enhanced irrigationtechnologies and modern management techniques, the Green Revolution in the 1960s made possible quantum leaps in global food production and provided asustainable way in feeding the world population. This has immense impact on reducing poverty since with greater food security and stable output, people mayallocate their scarce land resources to alternative productive uses while enhanced nourishment levels may enable higher productivity of workers, whichraises standard of living and extricates people out of poverty. Meanwhile, improvements in transportation technologies as well as increasing global interconnectedness have made possible reallocations of global resources through aid programmes to the poor, hence enabling developing societies to thrive and move out of poverty, despite possible constraints in environmental endowments and natural resources. With technology and globalisation setting up a favourable environment for the elimination of poverty, it might be argued that the world today is better-equipped than ever to eradicate poverty once and for all. However, widespread poverty still persists in today’s world --- an indication of our human inability to adequately address such a social problemeven when powerful tools are readily available. Hence, in view of the stark contrast between entrenched poverty and favourable technological changes, it seems justified to argue that the existence of poverty today represents an embarrassment to mankind.

In fact, if we are to take a deeper look at the efforts on the ground today, one would realise that the failure to eradicate poverty sometimes steams from entrenched institutional problems and government failures, rendering our unsatisfactory performance in eliminating poverty an utter embarrassment toourselves. In many developing societies where poverty is rife, ingrained governmental red tape and corruption often stand in the way of the alleviation of poverty. For example, it is estimated that more than 40% of international aid to African countries such as Malawi and Zambia are siphoned off by government officials overseeing their distribution, depriving such countries of the best hopeof extricating ourselves out of poverty. International aid provided by institutionssuch as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), while well-intentioned, come with unrealistic conditions such as forced liberalisation of capital markets which imposed grave harm on recipient nations due to the great uncertainty introduced to their nascent financial systems, contributing to a series of crisis and ultimately, poverty in these societies. Hence, it may be argued that the fact that poverty still exists today is nothing but a testimony to prevalent governmental inefficiencies and institutional problems, which represent a source of utter embarrassment to ourselves.

However, by espousing the belief that the existence of poverty is nothing but an utter embarrassment, proponents of the given statement risk adopting a simplistic treatment of poverty as an issue that could be fully eliminated withadvanced technological solutions, impeccable governance and collective will by the international community. Yet one must take note that poverty is, in fact, a multifaceted issue with a whole range of contributing factors. As such, it would be hard to believe that poverty can ever be eliminated even with the best technological solutions and clean, efficient government, given the sheer multitude of intersecting causes, some of which are clearly beyond our capacity to be fully resolved. In Syria, multipartite conflicts of political interests as well as the emergence of religious fundamentalism have led to prolonged warfare that have plunged two-thirds of the Syrian population into absolute poverty. Also prominent are the ravage of natural disasters, as exemplified by the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami which is believed to have left more than 100 million people under the poverty line. In some developed societies, poverty may simply be a result of personal sloth and the lack of clear ambitions, which is best illustrated by the millions of poor in countries such as the U.S and Australia, who rely heavily on meagre state pensions and refuse to make full use of available opportunities to upgrade their skills and break free of the poverty cycle. Hence, the eradication of poverty would demand the total elimination of all possible contributing factors --- an uphill battle with little possibility of winning given the sheer complexity of many of the contributing causes. Some forms of poverty see their roots in human flaws and natural disasters which have no absolute cure, while others result from deep-seated problems within the human society such as conflicts and discriminations which are not likely to be fully resolved even in the long-term. Hence, the mere fact that poverty still exists today should not be interpreted as a form of embarrassment to mankind since poverty itself is a problem that simply cannot be fully eradicated.
