In today’s globalised world, the increasingly freer movement of people across national boundaries has changed the demographics of many countries. People arrive on the shores of foreign countries in search of better economic opportunities, tourism or even to seek asylum as they face political persecution in their home country. These increased movement of people across national boundaries has added on to the challenges that a government must face and tackle. It is thus pertinent to place the environmental and economic interests, and social welfare of the locals above foreigners as the former are the ones who remain rooted in their country of origin as they weather through the good and bad times. However, the government also has to spare some consideration and sacrifice the interests of locals to some extent to fulfil their moral obligations of providing humanitarian assistance to foreigners fleeing political persecution. 

Economic migration can bring in capital, knowledge and foreign technology to bolster a country’s capital stock and human capital for increased economic growth. However, a government is obliged to remain committed in protecting the economic interests of the locals to ensure employment and their continued stake in the economy. Foreigners who are economic migrants seek out better employment and a higher standard of living in countries overseas. While these foreigners, such as Bangladeshi and Chinese workers, help to plug manpower shortages in sectors such as construction in countries with small population sizes such as Singapore, the government needs to ensure that the locals continue to have access to employment. The government, being representative of its own citizens, has the obligation to protect their monetary interests in the economic arena. The government has to ensure that the influx of foreigners is carefully controlled and are only allowed into sectors of the economy that are facing manpower shortages as employment opportunities that are not taken up by locals. An example would be the construction and gardening industries in Singapore, which are mostly shunned by locals. However, in white-collared professions in biomedical fields and healthcare, the influx of foreign talent from countries such as India needs to be managed. This ensures that local graduates will still be able to find employment. 

Furthermore, there is also a need for the government to prioritise protecting the environment that the locals live in above the needs of the foreigners to ensure sustainability for future generations. Foreigners entering a foreign land to travel or to seek out economic opportunities are a transient group that do not have a vested commitment in their country of visit. However, for locals, the country they are in is their home and the resources in the country are finite. To ensure sustainability of the environment’s resources to address the future needs and generations of the locals, it is important that a government protects the environment the locals live in. For example, coastal cities and islands in Spain live off visitors into small towns and cities have led to a multitude of social and environmental problems.  The increase in tourists has led to an increase in private hire and rental transport, and illegal parking has become an eyesore, prompting the local administration to ban parking at cathedrals and city squares. Ironically, this has brought a significant degree of disruption for locals, who have to park further away or circle around for extended periods of time to find a parking space. The influx of foreigners has also placed strains on finite natural resources such as water. Thus, there is rising unhappiness amongst the Spanish due to the gradual degradation of the environment they live in, as there is not enough being done by the government to manage their needs by controlling the influx of foreigners.  
