It cannot be denied that migration can be a boon for both host and destination countries, for it not only furthers economic progress but also reduces the persistant inequalities in wealth and skills between developing and developed countries. In many developing countries, infrastructure and technological know-how remains severely lacking, serving as a deterrence to foreigninvestment and leading to a stagnant job market. Even for the fortunate ones who receive a decent education, the dearth of white collar jobs mean that they are frequently underemployed in jobs which do not put their skills to productive use. On the other hand, in the developed world, changing aspirations and improving educational attainment - accompanied by a rise in the number of university graduates - have contributed to a perennial shortage of workers in 3’D’ (dirty, difficult and dangerous) jobs. It is not surprising thatfirms in labour intensive industries like the construction sector would welcome such as influx of migrants, which has the advantage of keeping wages competitive. Migrants are also better-off from seeking employment overseas as the comparatively higher purchasing power of foreign currency means that their wages, regarded as meagre in local terms, is often worth a small fortunate back home. Most of all, these remittances often contribute to improving infrastructure and allowing their children to access better educational and health services, helping individual families break out of the poverty cycle. In the long run, if the migrants make their return journey home, they may pass on the skills and knowledge gained to their home country, spurring economic development on a larger scale. For example, returning migrants from America are responsible for founding the equivalents of Silicon Valley in Taiwan, Mumbai and Shanghai. Even in more economically backward countries like the Philippines, remittances from domestic workers abroad continue to comprise double-digit percentages of GDP. On a global scale, such mass movements are no doubt beneficial as they help to counter unsustainable demographic trends. Most developed countries in the West face an aging population while developing countries are often overpopulated. Hence some would say that migration ought to be strongly encouraged. 

Clearly, migration has worsened the plight of the less skilled in developed countries, while worsening the problem of brain drain in developing countries. In many developed countries, the influx of migrants has stiffened competitionfor employment among the lower-income, threatening the livelihoods of those who are unable to move up the skill ladder. Recently, the displacement of local Britons from their traditional employment by migrants from poorer Eastern European countries was a possible contributing factor to the Brexit vote. Even in developing countries where migration seems to be a remedy for economic growth, migration has often hindered economic progress in subtler ways. Poverty-stricken countries are deprived of much-need talent when their best and brightest minds leave en masse in search of better work opportunities abroad. Presently, more Liberian doctors work in Chicago than in their home country. The loss of such valuable talent is highly pernicious, especially in today’s knowledge-based economy where the value of educationalqualifications has multiplied exponentially. Indeed, Liberia was caught wrongfooted when the Ebola epidemic struck in the 2010s, finding itself unable to mount an effective response with its limited number of trained medical personnel. Hence, immigration should be discouraged as it causes inequitable and distorted growth, and may potentially worsen the prospects of lowincome workers and less developed countries. 

Moreover, migration has also increased social tensions in host countries and caused social fragmentation in destination countries. Migrants may not be aware of the cultural norms and appropriate standards of behaviour in host countries, fuelling misunderstandings and possible conflicts. This is exemplified by Singapore’s ‘curry’ incident when a PRC immigrant complained about the smell of her Indian’s neighbour cooking, prompting an outpouring of antiimmigrant vitriol online. In other societies, where authorities have not made an active effort to promote integration, migrants are more comfortable living with fellow migrants in homogeneous communities, leading highly segregated lives. The resulting social alienation can have severe effects. Recent terror attacks have cast a spotlight on Muslim immigrant ghettos in Europe, where migrants, largely disconnected from wider society, are susceptible to the influence of extremist ideology. Many lone-wolf terrorists such as Salah Abdeslam, who was responsible for the November 2015 bombings in France, have subsequently been identified as hailing from such ghettos. Furthermore, families are often separated as migrants are often too destitute to bring their family along, causing personal relationships to become estranged. In China, where rural-urban migration is a mass phenomenon, rural migrants may only meet their families infrequently during festive occasions like Chinese New Year. Among rural children, those brought up without the nurturing influence of their parents have been reported to show higher incidences of depressive disorders and delinquent behaviour. Hence, migration ought to be discouraged as it tends to be a divisive force with a negative bearing on the social fabric of a country.
