Perhaps one significant reason why the general public may perceive video games to only have entertainment value is the way they tend to be marketed. In posters and television advertisements, video games are often depicted as fun, cool, and exciting — characteristics which resonate with the key demographic that gaming companies wish to attract, teenagers. In today’s world, youths are often stressed-out, overworked, and in desperate need of a break from theireducational and co-curricular commitments. Hence, they are naturally drawn towards a form of entertainment that seems exactly what it claims to be — a way to destress; nothing more and nothing less. Video games are now specifically designed to offer the maximum amount of fun in the minimum amount of time. One such game is Pokemon Go, which shook the gaming industry by racking up millions of downloads and grossing millions of dollarswithin the first few weeks of its release on the App Store. Its ground-breaking popularity and success can largely be attributed to one thing — its entertainment value. Like all other video games, Pokemon Go was  designed to allow players — in this case, self-appointed Pokemon Trainers — to have fun. There are few hidden motives here with regards to what game engineers wish to offer players. Fundamentally, a video game’s purpose is to entertain players, and any other benefits that they might enjoy are often ancillary and accidental.

Nevertheless, the mere fact that video games are highly effective at entertaining their audiences does not exclude them from fulfilling other purposes in our society. As game manufacturers and engineers continually aspire towards creating the most fun, creative, or immersive games, they simultaneously drive the development and spread of new technologies that households can benefit greatly from. For example, in trying to compress the Pokemon Gold software into the minuscule 1MB afforded by its Game Boycartridge, Nintendo engineers had to invent a new method of data storage – a discovery that later trickled down to the entire gaming industry. More recently, the development of gaming decides and consoles has seen new, highly innovative technologies reach consumers at an even quicker pace than before. Households can now purchase Microsoft’s Xbox Kinect from retailers at about US$500 a set, making motion control technology more accessible and affordable than ever before. Augmented reality headsets like the Oculus Rifthave also been hitting the shelves, such that one can now experience a virtual reality rollercoaster or his favourite rock star’s concert with incredible realism, all without leaving his living room 9 . This extraordinary spread of new technology would have been impossible without video games, as consumer demand drives manufacturers to continually refine new and upcoming forms of technology, bringing them to the market more quickly and affordably. Hence, video games — empowered and driven by the hundreds of millions of dollars spent on them annually — provide the incentive for the constant improvement and refinement of technology, and consequently do more than just entertain.

Next, video games also serve as an important force for social change, as they encode many messages that can have an extensive impact on future generations. Since video games are played so widely and frequently by people from all walks of life, the principles that they encompass can act as catalysts to alter the mindsets of their audiences. For example,  the original Mario games only allowed players to take on the avatar of Mario in their adventures to rescue Princess Peach from the enemy, King Bowser. This perpetuated the “damsel-in-distress” stereotype of women being weak and unable to fend for themselves, which was not only unfairly sexist, but also deprived female gamers of the opportunity to pick an avatar that they identified with. However, this trope has since been subverted in the more recent Super Princess Peach video game, where, in a contemporary role-reversal, Princess Peach was tasked withsaving Mario from King Bowser. This has helped to reinforce the message that girls, too, can defeat evil villains, and that being a hero is not an exclusively male appointment. Progressive video games like these might not revolutionise the world, but the small cultural shifts that they do create should not be discounted. They challenge the status quo, and remind players that they have the capacity to be protagonists of their own lives, regardless of their gender, age, or race. Hence, video games can be seen as microcosms of society, as the messages they embody allow their audiences to be empowered, making them an important catalyst for social change.
