The statement that History is merely a set of lies first and foremost degrades our historical knowledge to the level of plain untruths. Although it is extreme, it is easy to see how historical study can easily lose its grasp on the truth – the “real” past is inherently inaccessible due to the progress of time – we simply cannot travel back in time to re-experience an event. As a result, truth must be accessed through indirect means; a historian may look at newspapers,artefacts, conduct interviews to obtain accounts of the past and evidence for certain events. Yet, these means are often imperfect, such as when there arean abundance of resources or a scarcity of it. We then rely on historians to “fill in the gaps”, to select certain resources or to make inferences from the few sources in order to find the truth. For example, studies of the prehistorical age often face this challenge. Since human records have not yet begun during that time, our knowledge of early human stem from the tools they made, structures they built and so on. A clear criticism is that we perhaps do not truly understand their way of life through these scraps of information; yet, we claim to do so anyway, and write textbooks about it. This subjective leap to the truth can be said to be perhaps our lying to ourselves – deep inside, we are not sure if we can access the truth.

The real problem, however, lies in how we construct historical arcs and stories. So far, we have only talked about historical facts – events which happened, where and when they happened and so on. What is often more interesting is why these events happen, or how the events fit into a bigger picture; often the answers to these questions can be deeply controversial, and there may not be a “true” answer. For example, some historians might claim that Hitler caused World War 2, while others may claim that the event was bound to happen given the overall trend of Germany and Europe. The reason for this controversy could be the problem of causation as pointed out by Hume – all we really have are a series of events and imposing cause-effect relationships on them are unjustified. Add to that all the problems of subjectivity and temporal distance mentioned earlier, and our narratives perhaps are merely lies to ourselves, since we know that the truth is beyond our reach. Hence, we do lie to ourselves, and we do not even agree on the best way to do so.

When we agree on how best to construct our narratives, our lie deepens- our notions of how history should be sometimes even corrupt the certainty of those historical facts previously mentioned. In constructing our narratives, we leave out important sources which may provide contradictory information, and select sources which support us, which is tantamount to lying. For example,the Singaporean government’s metanarrative of the nation’s struggle against communism as a state enemy during its formative years leaves out details which do not fit, such as the detention and expulsion of those accused to be communists, which were perhaps unconstitutional or immoral moves, inOperation Coldstore. Japanese textbooks don’t depict the cruelty of Japanese or deny the seriousness of events like the Nanking massacre. Hence, we twist facts and truths to our purposes, deceiving those around us even though the truth is within reach. Through this, History perhaps really is a set of lies that governments and those in power agree upon.
