Those who claim that describing the existence of poverty as an embarrassment is going too far do have their reasons for saying so. After all, there is no shame in acknowledging that a problem exists, as long as one follows up with actionsto mitigate or solve the problem. Awareness of a social issue is often the first step in solving it and making the world a better place. Given that some advancements have been made in this area recently, how then can we call such an issue an embarrassment to mankind? Around the world, non-governmental organisations work around the clock for the betterment of the poor in less fortunate countries, and governments also throw their weight behind programssuch as the UN World Food Programme. To prevent poverty from taking its toll in terms of negatively affecting one’s health, countries have utilisedtechnology to create inventions such as the long-lasting insecticide-treated mosquito nets, which are a major improvement over previous iterations of mosquito nets, as well as the LifeStraw, to provide clean drinking water. Wit these, families currently living in poverty are able to spend their resources such as time and money on areas such as education to get the out of the poverty cycle. For example, after a deal between some African countries and Chinese corporations enabled the construction of a power grid with subsidised cost ofusage to African families, a study found that families with access to the power grid were 25% more likely to start a business which brought in an average of $1000 a year. Not too bad in a  region where the average household income is $700 a year. More importantly, children were found to show a 78% increase in terms of time spent on studies, a crucial step in lifting them out of the cycle of poverty. Hence, with non-governmental organisations, governments and sometimes even corporations throwing their weight behind the cause of eradicating poverty, and making actual, real improvements to the lives of people, to simply dismiss poverty as a blemish on our record that we ought to be embarrassed by does not do justice to the efforts of the aforementioned parties.

Moreover, the nature of poverty makes it a difficult problem to solve in the first place. If there is no shame in admitting the existence of a problem, then what more can be said about one that is intrinsically difficult to eliminate? Poverty is a tough nut to crack because it represents a vicious cycle – one of unemployment leading to lack of time to pursue one’s or allow one’s children to pursue further studies, which leads to unemployment due to lack of qualifications, and so on. This endless, self-perpetuating cycle is very hard to break out of, and is further exacerbated by the fact that the poor often live in rural slums which are inaccessible, making it very difficult for aid to reach them. How many organisations would forge on, completely undeterred, if they knew their job entailed 3 days of hiking in a place with no roads or railways, while carrying all their aid packages and supplies just to deliver them to a rural village in Uganda? Hence, proponents of the view that the existence of poverty is not an embarrassment take the stand that a difficult problem which we areworking hard to solve is not something we should hang our heads over, butrather forge ahead with our heads held high knowing that we are working for a worthy cause. After all, it is nigh impossible to completely eradicate poverty, even in today’s world, hence it is no cause for embarrassment.

I feel that while poverty itself is not an embarrassment, it does reflect some deeper social issues which should trigger a wave of emotion including some element of shame. Firstly, if we examine the causes of poverty, we find thatone of the contributing factors is corruption in the governments managing the areas where poverty is widespread. To date, more than a trillion US dollars have been sent to Africa, and it seems incredulous that so many Africans are still living in poverty today despite the cumulative contributions of so many bodies up till now. The reason is simple; many officials grease the palms of a few around them, and then help themselves to a share of this pie known as an “aid package”. Mind you, these are not the stereotypical evil megacorporations looking to maximise profits; these are officials and civil servants who are supposed to be working for the betterment of their countrymen. The nepotism that goes on behind the scenes to get family members into positions of power so that they can siphon money from well-intentioned donations from abroad is simply disappointing. Even heads-of-state, such as the previous presidents of Zaire and Zambia, are sometimes in it for their personal gain, such as when they pocketed millions of dollars meant for their people. A blatant lack of integrity is a matter which one should feel ashamed of, especially when it has allowed a problem as serious as poverty to persist up till now.
