Let us first discuss why it is unfathomable to divorce a researcher’s worldview from his research. A researcher, like any other human being, is a product of hissociety. He is indubitably influenced by the social, political and cultural currents of thought circulating around in his time and age. Some of these beliefs are so conventionally accepted that it seems unfathomable and almost heretic to challenge them. Take for example European anthropologists, who endeavoured to catalogue the “Oriental” way of life. While these individuals took great pains to live amongst the natives who were the objects of their study in an effort to observe these natives in their natural habitat, accurate accounts of “Oriental” lives were not produced as these researchers could not escape their interpretative frameworks. Entrenched notions of Eurocentrism and the concept of the diametrically opposed Other — that is the belief that Europe boasted a conglomeration of the most cultured individuals and the stance that those whoare different from oneself are necessarily our opposites — lead researchers to believe “Orientals” like Egyptians were heathens (despite evidence to the contrary such as skillful craftsmen and architects. While we scoff at such a narrow, simple worldview in today’s age of multiculturalism and interconnectedness, it is crucial to note that these assumptions were considered to be fundamental truths to the aforementioned researchers. Imagine vigorously asserting that the world was round to a mathematician-cum-astronomer from an ancient civilisation. He would not deign to engage with that idea because it is so contrary to all he has believed in and been told by sources of authority. Would he change his calculations of the distance from the earth to the sun because of your seemingly spurious claims? Of course not.
 
This segues nicely into another reason why researchers’ opinions always interfere with their research. Researchers are not only incapable of cleavingapart their beliefs and their research, but also incapable of producing any knowledge at all without their opinions and beliefs. Existing opinions and beliefs always interfere with research because they are the source from which all other new ideas spring. Without a web of existing beliefs, how is one to justify one’s knowledge claims? Take for instance, the proposition that the French Revolution was bad. This claim could not possibly exist without some conception of “bad” which stems from the historian’s existing opinions and beliefs. Only when thehistorian infuses his existing database of knowledge — for example, the notion that something is bad when it threatens human lives which are God-given and therefore precious — can one make knowledge claims. Even seemingly uncontroversial, bald statements like “many lives were lost” during the French Revolution depend on answers to other questions — what constitutes “many” and what is a “life”? Thus, a researcher’s options necessarily interfere with his research because they are the starting point, the bedrock, the foundation of all knowledge claims he makes. Without these preconceptions, there would be no edifice of propositions whose bias we can debate.

Lastly, a researcher’s opinions and beliefs always interfere with his research as he is bound by the conventions of language as a social scientist or historian. When a researcher is communicating his findings in disciplines concerned with human beings, it is most often through spoken word or written text. Therefore, a researcher has to pick the words he would like to employ to communicate his ideas. Herein kills the problem. According to post-modernists like Hayden White, once the author selects certain phrases to put his point across, he hasinextricably infused his beliefs into the research he intends to present to the world. A historian who claims that “the freedom fighters lost ground”, for example, clearly regards the fighters with some degree of respect as opposed to one which states that “the terrorists were conquered”. The former statement paints the figure in a better light as  they do not come across as war-mongeringheathens that ought to be vanquished like they do in the second example., While the context of both sentences are roughly similar — this group of people who were fighting no longer have a hold of their territory or power, the connotations of both sentences differ vastly due to the way in which the author of the statement has allowed (consciously or not) his opinions and beliefs to seep into his diction. This is less of an issue in disciplines which do not endeavour to communicate through language as it is conventionally defined. E = MC2 is a case of a propositional claim in the field of science which employs sterile mathematical notion that is self-contained and does not trigger other connotations, like language does. For now, it does not appear that the discipline of history and social science will escape the shackles of language, resulting in propositional claims that are theory-laden to some extent.
