The morality and efficacy of the majority rule has been debated from times immemorial, and opinions on the matter presently remain empirically polarised. Proponents of giving paramount importance to majority interests adopt a utilitarian argument and point out that such has become the internationally accepted way of good democratic governance, while naysayers highlight both the flaws in principle and practice that result in the detriments of such governance. I personally reject the preposterous postulation that a good government should always protect the interests of the majority before all else because this na•ve notion paves the way for gross violations of human rights and customary international law, hinges upon a flawed assumption of a qualified majority, and results in detriments to both the majority and the minority in the long run. Detractors may argue, however, that the indiscriminate protection of majority interests is sound both in principle and practice. In principle, such thinking is congruent with accepted political theories on governance and ensures that the government best fulfills its obligations under the social contract through a utilitarian approach. In 'The Prince', Niccolo Machiavelli's magus opus, it is argued that an immoral means is justified by a moral end, suggesting that the government is expected to work towards the greater good, even if such policymaking infringes on the rights of and compromises on the interests of the minority. The manifestation of such a belief is seen predominantly in representative democracies such as Switzerland, where policies are implemented so long as a 50% majority vote is reached. This has gone to take form even in supranational organisations like the United Nations Security Council where States are permitted to infringe on the sovereignty of minority voters through economic sanctions, arms embargoes and even direct military intervention, should a supermajority of 67% be reached, clearly against the interests of the minority. In practice, following the majority rule will not gravely jeopardise the interests of any one group, because most majority-minority dichotomies exist in equilibria such that a member of the minority in one aspect (say on opinions on abortion laws) would constitute the majority group on another (say on opinions on gun laws). This liquidity of the majority justifies universally abiding by majority beliefs as opined by John Locke, in his Second Treatise on government, who suggests that it is only right for minority groups to accept such a majority rule in the interest of the common good, which they too will benefit from. John Stuart Mill too argues that such should be the true way of governance for it maximises happiness and minimises suffering in his theory on utilitarianism. Thus, this appears to be both valid in principle and in practice. However, the aforementioned argument must be challenged, for it rests on a flawed premise that the majority-minority division is liquid. In reality, there exist permanent minorities who suffer from the tyranny of the majority, both in terms of unlawful abrogations of international law and gross human right violations. While it is true that liquid minorities exist in largely homogenous societies, we only have to turn to nations in which ethnic minorities are persecuted by the state to have a glimpse of geopolitical realities. The majority rule has led to mass atrocities globally: in Rwanda where state sanctioned genocides took place between ethnic Hutus and Tutsis, in Bosnia where Serbs massacred Muslims, in South Sudan where loyalists of President Salva Kiir (of Dinka ethnicity) murdered members of Riek Machar's fellow Neurs, inter alia. 