The dawn of the twenty-first century has seen mankind’s understanding of the world grow exponentially. This has led to a large number of creature comforts in our everyday lives that range from LED televisions to high speed internet connection. However, like all great advancements, science is also marred by its potential dangers. For instance, nuclear research has led to the harnessing of nuclear power as one of the most viable environmentally friendly methods of power generation. At the same time, it is also extremely risky to pursue, as exemplified by the 1986 Chernobyl disaster which made Chernobyl inhabitable till date. A graver concern would be the prospects of genetically modified food becoming a staple in our diets and embryonic stem cell research becoming commonplace. As a result, such developments have led to more people expressing great discomfort with the direction and pace at which science is currently heading to, given our lack of understanding in the possible repercussions presented by science. Nonetheless, staunch science activists in the pharmaceutical industry remain convinced that only by delving into the unknown through scientific sophistication could we further our understanding of our body and unlock the limitless future value of medicine. Additionally, agricultural scientists are also convicted that more research is the solution to feeding the burgeoning world population that is expected to hit 9 billion by 2050. Thus, despite the potential hazards elucidated, I am inclined to disagree that science poses a threat to society and instead, I believe that science should be further developed to address the menaces. It is evident that science has its potential risks, given our scant knowledge about new areas of science such as genetic modification and embryonic stem cell research. which has led to the critiques by numerous theists and conspiracy theorists. The furore over genetic modification can be best understood from the possible severity of harm that could be inflicted on our body, whereas for embryonic stem cell research, it would be the violation of the sanctity of life. Indeed, many criticise genetic modification as meddling with nature by “playing God”. They believe that transplanting a gene from one species to another may cause detrimental effects on our health and wellbeing. For example, it was found by a research paper that rats that were fed genetically modified corn grew malignant stomach tumours. Thus, it can be seen that if genetically modified food is introduced as a staple, modern societies could be stricken with such harmful diseases.Alas, on the issue of embryonic stem cell research, the state-of-the-art method to extract embryonic stem cell inevitably kills the embryo in the process. As an embryo is viewed as a precious human life, it should thus be accorded the same respect and right to life as a fully developed human being. Science has to be rigorously tested and challenged in the ethical and moral landscapes. Consequently, given the fact that science does present real threats to our society either socially or physiologically, it is always in our best interest to direct our concerted effort to mitigating such risks. Given the conceivable dangers that science poses, many might overlook the vast potential science has for solving many of our current problems. Science has repeatedly paved the way for life-saving inventions such as vaccination, X-ray machine and the MRI scanner that have helped to further develop the field of medicine. It is incontrovertible that vaccination has eradicated many deadly and contagious diseases like smallpox, that had resulted in the drastic increase in the average life expectancy from 31 in the early twentieth century to over 65 in 2010. Furthermore, with growing medical advancements, it is expected to exceed 75 by 2050. Despite the proven and potential health benefits science can bring, it is regrettable that embryonic stem cell has been consistently promulgated as murder when it may hold the key to future treatments for chronic and degenerative diseases such as heart diseases. Additionally, the embryos currently used for research are in reality leftovers from invitro fertilisation that would otherwise be destroyed. Thus, embryonic stem cell research should not be viewed as synonymous with murder but contribution to invaluable scientific research that would push the boundaries of our stock of knowledge in alleviating human suffering from illnesses. With such clear benefits that science can provide to our society, it is hence myopic and improvident to denounce it as a threat and hamper its progress. 