Presently, we primarily obtain energy from the burning of fossil fuels such as natural gas, coal, petroleum and oil. Studies have shown that if we are to continue relying on crude oil as our main source of energy at this rate, there will only be enough for 42 years, implying that we may be facing a severe depletion of this precious energy resource. It is hence essential for us to uncover new and innovative means to obtain renewable energy. Renewable energy is important in sustaining mankind’s economic development and environmental preservation. Renewable energy, by definition, is inexhaustible in contrast to fossil fuels, which will eventually run out. This is a pivotal point to consider in the light of our steadily growing population size facing diminishing fossil fuel supplies as the rate of depletion significantly outpaces the rate of discovery and extraction. Hence renewable energy would be a more desirable alternative to fossil fuels. Another major benefit of renewable energy is that such forms of energy have limited environmental impact. Good These clean forms of energy generate minimal  pollution and emissions, if not at all. Good On the contrary, the refinement process of crude oil produces many solid toxic wastes such as mercury and other heavy metals, and the burning of fossil fuels often discharges arsenic and lead into surface waters while both release a substantial amount of pollutants into the air. These pollutants cause respiratory illnesses and deaths in humans, and give rise to acid rain, which erodes infrastructure and destroys fragile eco-systems. These harmful effects are very detrimental to our economic development and environment, greatly hampering global productivity as a consequence. Therefore, it would be wise to focus on the research on sources of renewable energy.Last but not least, another important area of research should be targeted at the issues of environmental degradation caused by pollution and global climate change. Increasing technological advancement has also yielded greater environmental damage in the form of pollutant emissions, which have long-lasting effects on our commonly shared environment. For example, the increasing mechanization and commercialization of agricultural produce causes water pollution and disrupts eco-systems and aquatic life. Besides, pollutants emitted from deforestation contribute to global warming, which could escalate into an environmental crisis if not properly managed and dealt with. It also causes soil erosion that results in land degradation. These are pressing environmental issues that can majorly impact mankind and his future. Thus, it is vital for us to prioritise scientific research in existing and potential environmental issues and the ways to alleviate them. Therefore, I feel that in the next decade, environmental preservation should be one of the key priorities of scientific research, especially in an increasingly industrialized world.In conclusion, the three key areas of scientific research to be prioritized in the next decade are the research and development on food genetics, renewable energy, as well as environmental sustainability and protection. By simultaneously targeting all three areas, the aggregate impact may be substantially greater than the individual impacts since the benefits are mutually reinforcing, such as the use of renewable energy would also help to improve the problem of environmental degradation. This should be the top mandate in the next decade, where technology will continue to flourish alongside with the exponential increase of population, in pursuit of sustainable future progress and growth.