Ethical knowledge would not help much in our courtroom if it does not exist  at all. Proponents of a non-cognitivist view of ethics support such a view; often, our moral statements do not really mean anything about the truth of morality, since they are rather a product of our emotional responses of inner desires; these people would say to make your decision anyway regardless whether you think you are right or wrong, since such moral beliefs are meaningless. For example, Simon Blackburn suggests that moral statements are the result of a causal chain of events; Mary sees a dog being attacked by young hooligans, empathises with the dog’s pain through its whimpers and screams, and as a result states that “this is wrong”. Hence, the statement does not refer to any morality, but is rather almost like a biological responses, that merely proves Mary’s ability to empathise with dogs and express her opinion. However, such a view may be too extreme, and there is good reason to believe that moralstatements are truth-apt. First, such an argument could be extended to other statements ad absurdum - “ the sky is blue” could also become a biological responses or an expression about the good weather, while somehow not referring to an obvious physical world; second, by intuition we assume the existence of morality and speak of  statements whether they are true of false. Either way, concluding that moral statements are not truth-apt does not seem particularly useful to our courtroom - let’s examine how ethical knowledge may affect our decision to punish assuming we can speak of such knowledge. 

An immediate reaction would be to say that of course we must know what is right and wrong before we punish someone; how can we send an adulterer to jail without understanding how adultery is really wrong? The nature of ethical knowledge affects this relationship. Consider the possibility that moral reality exists, and that somehow there is a “truly right” way of living one’s life, or a magic formula that can tell you immediately what is right or what is wrong. That is in effect what Derek Parfit tried to do in a seminal book, On What Matters, by combining utilitarianism, Kantian categorical imperatives and numerous modifications to reduce ethics to a clear cut, objective system of defining morality. Such a system would benefit us greatly, since such objectivity would mean that certain truths would become universally recognised by everyone, and such universal agreement can give us a strong warrant for the right to punish. Of course, the fact that such reality exists also means that we can find truths that correspond to reality, a convincing argument for our right to punish too. Hence, the possibility of moral reality enshrines our right to punish - although we may not always know what is right and wrong, the possibility for a correct answer is out there, and knowing that we are correct we are confident in our punishment.

The case where ethical knowledge has no objectivity is a more difficult one. There may be no moral reality - what is “right” depends on our opinions and beliefs, our locations and cultures. In one view, morality is relative to the communities we live in; in a tribal village deep in the Amazon, perhaps cannibalism and incest is rampant, and nothing anyone says can really show that these are “wrong” in their culture. This is damaging to our right to punish, since universal agreement is no longer on our side, and there is no reality we can seek truth in. What if you think that the poor sod was wrong, but in his mind and culture, he was completely, and justifiably right? This concern is mitigated somewhat by how there can be local moral “realities” through intersubjective agreement; in your courtroom, you can be assured in punishing the offender by the laws of the country, hopefully a reflection of what society thinks is right or wrong –something we do on an everyday basis.
