Serving such a short term that is barely the length of a full year is extremely detrimental to the economy since most policies may not be seen through, leading to suboptimal results at best. Therefore, democracy in its raw form may not often be the best as it may cause political parties to lose sight of its actual aims and instead become a popular party through deception to win its way into government. As such, it often results in the inability of the government to fulfil its promises given at the rallies. Secondly, although the elected individuals are mandated to represent their supporters and decide on policies that will benefit the country, they are ultimately still humans and thus are equally vulnerable to the same human temptations. As such they may become corrupt and implement venal policies for their personal selfish gains. An example is the previous president of Ukraine, Victor Yanukovych. He allegedly misappropriated part of Ukraine’s savings to build his lavish mansion, which houses golden taps and a collection of motorcycles and cars worth millions of dollars. Up till now, he still insists that he funded his house with his savings, even though he merely earns fifteen thousand pounds annually. This notorious example has showcased the immense corruption that can possibly occur, where politicians entrenched in power may abuse the public trust and loyalty to their own favour. Thus, even if morally upright politicians are democratically elected, they may eventually succumb to financial temptations and often render democracy not the best political system.Finally, in many democratic countries today, many outcomes are premeditated by the political representatives while feedback and open discussions are often not sought from the people. Thus this has increasingly raised doubts on the level of “democracy” in a “democratic society”. For example, in Singapore, there is a piece of legislation that was recently enacted which is often said to be a violation of Singaporeans’ freedom of speech. This legislation is called the Online Licensing Framework, where this framework requires websites that report on Singapore news with a readership of at least 50,000 over a period of a month to pay for a license to continue operating. Furthermore, they have to obey any notices received from the government and take down any articles deemed as untruthful. This led to many Singaporeans, especially the anti-PAP (the incumbent ruling political party of Singapore) activists to express even greater dissatisfaction with the government. The distaste for this legislation stems from the fact that government is trying to limit the content Singaporeans get to read, thereby effectively diminishing the ability of Singaporeans to post their criticisms of the government. Therefore, democratic governments today, may run the risk of getting too much power which could lead to them unknowingly robbing the citizens of their rights. As such, democracy may not be generally the best.In conclusion, even though democracy allows the people to have greater say in how their country is run, there are several unintended by products of the democratic systems due to the insufficient knowledge of the population, the shortcomings of human nature and the ability of politicians to abuse their power. Therefore, it is fair to conclude that democracy is often not the best system. Yet with felicitous modifications to mitigate its inherent ills, it will be a better system.