Proponents of the belief that social media tends to disconnect, like those belonging to the older generation, might believe that it has resulted in ageneration of e-teenagers, with their heads bowed, eyes glued to the screen, thumbs twitching. They criticise social media as having made people superficialand concerned with the image that they portray to the world when they upload photos on Instagram or Facebook. Many feel that given the carefully curated social media feeds that only showcase the positive and happy aspects of one’s life, it is impossible to build lasting relationships since the picture presented of one's life is inauthentic. A recent study by University of South Texas revealed that nearly 2.5 billion photos were uploaded onto Facebook in a single month alone. In an interview with top social media influences on Instagram, they admitted to using social media as a platform to portray the best, most perfect lives to the public, such that they gain a following, fame, and fortune. Thus, it is little wonder that people believe social media disconnects –if everyone who uses it focuses on curating, ‘perfecting’ their lives and getting more ‘likes’, they would be so obsessed in their own bubble world, andobviously neglect those around them. They would feel the need to constantly refresh their news feeds, check for new followers, or just keep updated with every new post of someone else’s life, for fear of missing out. In this sense, if one’s mind is always caught up in social media affairs, his/her bonds with those around him/her would definitely weaken. 

However, the above is but one admittedly undesirable aspect of social media. It would be myopic to say that this is all social media stands for – the sharing of ‘selfies’ and the garnering of ‘likes’. Those who use social media solely for the purposes above actually only constitute a small fraction of social media users worldwide, and other objectives of social media actually do connect rather than divide our community and world. Firstly, on an individual level, social media is a platform for users of similar interests to reach out and connect, and even share tips and tricks of the trade. Sites like YouTube, Instagram and even Pinterest are free for everyone to access, and have their own mobile application that makes its usage even more convenient. For example, it is not uncommon to see budding photographers connecting with aspiring models on Instagram to come up with stunning photo shoots that improve both the photographer’s resume and the model’s portfolio. On Youtube, cooking channels like ‘The Scran Line’ draws in viewers from all over the world who leave their opinions and ask cooking-related queries in the comment section of the page, to which others reply with their own advice. This is a fine example of how social media brings together people from around the world in pursuit of common interests. On a more intimate level, a study by a dating website revealed that couples who first met online, either through social media chats or dating sites, are 47% more likely to remain married for a longer period of time. Thus, there inherently must be something about the way social media connects individuals to have such a lasting impact. 

Secondly, on a national level, governments use social media as an efficient way of disseminating information to the public, and to update the public on recent happenings in the country. This generates online discourse that extends into bringing people together in real life, and allowing them to express their views. In Singapore, for example, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s Facebook page is frequently splashed with ‘selfies’ of him at various events, interacting with members of the public. A ‘selfie’ with the prime minister has thus become popular, with many flocking to such events island wide for a change to talk to the Prime Minister, and perhaps get that elusive 'selfie'. Another example would be Donald Trump’s Twitter account, which he uses regularly to update the world on his doings at the White House, to which every post generates plenty of buzz, both online and off, as people praise or criticize his actions. How can something like this be construed as a disconnect? Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, social media is an indispensible tool in times of need, used to rally for change or call for help. These functions definitely meaningfully engage people around the world, thereby connecting people over difficult times. A way in which social media was used to effect positive change was the Yulin Dog Festival in China. Angered by the inhumane treatment of dogs to be slaughtered for the festival, animal activities took to social media like Facebook to petition for the festival to be cancelled. They received an outpouring of support from animal lovers around the world, thanks to the wide-reaching arms of social media, and this year, for the first time in over a hundred years, the Yulin Dog Festival was cancelled. Would this outcome be possible without thousands of people banding together for a cause they are passionate about? I do not think so. More recently, the bombing in Manchester generated a hashtag on Twitter - #roomformanchester, which saw hundreds of those living in Manchester opening up their homes to those who might need a place to stay or rest after the attack, offering food, water, and even phone chargers. Many parents also used social media to find their missing children, and many have been successfully reunited with their child due to the help of strangers who chipped in to help. Such instances of social media being used after a major attack abound, and should be enough to convince one that social media can, inherently, connect in times of need.
