The past century saw momentous changes in governments, with centuries-old monarchies being replaced with communist and democratic governments and the eventual triumph of democracy over communism. Such critical developments have been accompanied by many definitions on what constitutes a good government. In the modern sense, a good government can be broadly defined as one that cares for the welfare of the people, putting it above all other considerations. This coupled together with a largely capitalist society might suggest that a government with a well-managed economy is a good government. However, I find this an unfair assessment as it is an overly narrow assessment criterion for a healthy economy is just one of the many products of a good government. Instead, I would argue that the key criterion should be accountability and transparency, which will ensure the social and economic well-being of its citizens, through low level of corruptness and political stability.On the other hand, some economists would claim that a healthy economy is the hallmark of a good government. Indeed strong gross domestic product (GDP) growth can boost a country’s living standards, as with a higher income, the citizens would be better able to satisfy their material needs. For instance, Botswana has registered one of the highest average economic growth rates in Africa since its independence while accumulating negligible foreign debt. This has since catapulted poverty-stricken Botswana to a middle-income country, with living standards comparable to that of Turkey, without sacrificing its future welfare. Therefore, it would be tempting to conclude that if a government can manage its economy well, it is a good  government. However, we should not be misled by that fallacy, as such success stories are few and far between, more often than not, such growth is accompanied by significant trade-offs. Some of these trade-offs could include neglecting the environment which would negatively impact the non-material living standards. The epitome of this trade-off between economic growth and environmental health is China. Ever since she has opened up her economy, the pursuit of economic profit has led to the fast-paced proliferation of factories in cities that discharge unchecked levels of pollutants at an alarming rate. The situation has since worsened till the point that only one percent of its urban population breathes air that is considered safe by European Union standards. Therefore, it can be seen that even though a country can achieve remarkable double-digit economic growth rate, it comes at a hefty health cost, calling the key criterion of good government as “how well the economy is managed” into question.Instead, accountability and transparency, an integral part of many representative democracies globally, should be the key criterion when it comes to assessing  governments. Having strong accountability and transparency means that the government has to make public the processes and justifications that lead to the  implementation of its policies. Increasing citizen participation can help to expose and stave off corrupt practices, ensuring that taxpayers’ money is well spent and that does not discriminate any religious or ethnic groups. For example, the Scandinavian countries such as Norway, Denmark and Sweden, have reported high levels of transparency and accountability in their governments, coming in among the top five in the 2014 Corruption Perception Index. One of the factors taken into consideration is to have full disclosure of the budget, in fact, they were shown to have the most open budget globally in 2012. Given that the government is trustworthy, ethical, responsible and accountable to the public, it is no surprise that Norway has continued to be the most prosperous country globally in 2014. Hence, accountability and transparency is key, more so than a well-managed economy, for any government that wishes to remain in power in the twenty-first century.