This highlights how economic intervention, due to its nature of conditionality, its potential for diplomatic leverage, and the ignorance of the intervening party largely debilitates the economies they seek to nurture, rendering them indefensible. Lastly, intervention of any form on the supranational level where countries, under set international framework, intervene in others with or without consent cannot be condoned due to its lack of accountability and its entrapment in rigid bureaucracy maligned by political self interest. Such factors have been noted to deteriorate the very conditions intervention may seek to address. Lack of oversight in organisations with the authority to intervene, like the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation has ironically led to war crimes in conflicts they were mobilised to dissipate. Cases of UN Peacekeeper brutality and even the rape of uninvolved civilians by parties in such a position of trust, a gross abrogation of the commitments undertaken to International Humanitarian Law under the Geneva Conventions, is not unheard of. This form of coalition intervention dramatically reduces the ability to effect necessary oversight as it makes the apportioning of blame and the application of punitive measures to any one party overtly difficult. This can serve to exacerbate already tense situations, as was the case with UN intervention in East Timor. Furthermore, supranational intervention of any one or few countries into another under international framework inspires a false sense of confidence in the international community of the ability of said intervention to be effective.As evidenced by various instances of political gridlock due to competing objectives and self-interest, such faith is misplaced. It both deters other forms of effective conflict resolution and itself fails to achieve any results compounding the issues faced in the country needing intervention. Such was the case in Rwanda where neighbouring Uganda decided not to intervene despite repeated calls by the incumbent government as the UN Mission in Rwanda had already been deployed. However, when the world needed it, political gridlock in the Security Council precluded the authorisation for troops already stationed in Rwanda to mobilise and act; Peacekeepers had to helplessly watch as Hutu turned on Tutsi and slaughtered one another on the bloodied streets of Kigali. This serves to show that supranational intervention both lacks much needed oversight and is subjected to bureaucratic inefficiency amidst political self-interest. It is thus that intervention is unjustifiable - far from solving the problems of other countries, it either directly contributes to them or otherwise deters the implementation of effective solutions, while itself being ineffectual. In conclusion, foreign intervention of most forms, except for humanitarian responses to disasters, compounds the very problems they seek to resolve and thus cannot be justified on both principle and practical grounds. This then begs the question - why does intervention continue to exist today, and how else can the international community respond? To address the former, experts in the field of international relations posit that it is but a way to consolidate political clout, present themselves as bastions of ideals such as democracy, and for large powers to satiate their modern day "white saviour complex", thereby pinning motivations behind intervention on self interest, as opposed to altruism. To address the later, perhaps there is no ideal way to resolve issues in the hotchpotch of international relations - for saying that intervention is unjustifiable is not to say other methods of conflict resolution and nation building are more effective. Perhaps this conundrum is best summarised by the sagacious words of Friedrich Nietschze who mused on the idea of moral relativism. He opined that to any problem - "There is your way, and there is mine. As for the right way, it does not exist.