Scientific discoveries, technological breakthroughs, and innovation are the primary engines for expanding the frontiers of human knowledge and are vital for responding to the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century. In the next decade, mankind is likely to launch into new scientific research areas in the journey to constantly enhance our quality of living. There is a diverse range of potential aspects of scientific research to be considered, and it is crucial for us to make an informed decision on which areas should be prioritized as it vastly affects the extent and speed of our progress. As of now and moving forward, a few of the many aspects of scientific research that are being prioritized include clean energy, environmental preservation and food genetics.

With our increasing global population size, we should prioritise the scientific research and development on food genetics. Studies have shown that globally, the population size is projected to reach 9 billion by 2050. This would entail a serious shortage of vital resources such as food in future. As of now, we are already facing a problem of food shortage. An article by Science Daily reports that the current increases  projected for crop production from biotechnology, genetics, agronomics and horticulture will not be sufficient to meet global food demand. In the report, a professor of horticultural sciences strongly advocates the development of more efficient technologies and high yielding crops to address this challenge. It is thus important for mankind to focus on improving the yield of food production and its nutritional value to adequately prepare ourselves for the drastic increase in population size by 2030.

Nonetheless, gainsayers might argue that food genetics should not be one of the main focuses of scientific research in the next decade because the food shortage faced in the rural areas of developing world is a result of costly food items that are not affordable to the majority. Hence they might feel that increasing production yield would not be targeting the root cause of the problem, unlike hefty food subsidy handouts. However, these detractors fail to realize that improvements in the quality and quantity of genetically modified food would undoubtedly lead to a lower cost of production for farmers, which in turn would result in lower prices and higher nutritional value for consumers. Thus the concern of exorbitant food prices would be addressed with the improvement of crop yield. Therefore, I believe that by prioritizing the research on food genetics, we would be able to curb the looming issue of global food shortage and world hunger. Hence I feel that food genetics should be one of the three key areas of scientific research in the next decade, especially in the face of a rapidly growing world population.Another area of scientific research, which would be greatly constructive in the next decade, is renewable energy. The projected population growth will doubtlessly impose a greater constraint on the energy resources as we now live in an era where energy is the engine of economic growth and development. It is thus important for mankind to prioritise the scientific research on renewable energy, especially on the discovery of new renewable energy sources before the issue of the energy crunch kicks in when the global demand for energy accelerates as a result of the rapidly expanding population. 