Education combats poverty most intuitively because it empowers individuals to pull themselves out of economic destitution. The primary function of education is equipping people with the necessary skills and knowledge for them to be able to survive in the working world. This aids the poor when they enter the workforce by enabling them to be more productive, as well as to upskill themselves into higher, better-paying jobs. So, in rural agricultural communities in India, going to school enables the younger generations to learn modern farming techniques and skills – for example, knowing how to implement regular crop rotation such that the land remains arable, or even attain basic technological proficiencies to operate agricultural machinery like tractors or harvesters. All of this ensures that these rural farmers have a sustainable farming practice, so they get to keep their jobs. It also helps them become more productive, getting better and better crop yields. This way, beyond mere subsistence farming, they can now grow and  sell their surplus and earn more money to afford basic amenities like gas or electricity or even a safe, secure house. Beyond this, education enables one  to upskill, if one is unemployed or stuck in low-level industries such as – primary industries like mining or agriculture, that offer lower pay. Getting an education in science and maths can enable the children of illiterate farmers to become technicians, electricians, or even professors and doctors, because they now have the necessary skills and knowledge, as well as the qualifications, to gain employment. Crucially, this is a positive feedback loop, because as individuals upskill and get richer, they can now send more of their children to get educated for longer durations in more expensive schools, so generation by generation, these families inch out of the poverty trap. Education thus becomes the vehicle of social mobility for the poor to move them out of poverty.

Education also helps individuals in crucial  health education, which gives them better standards of living to help them climb out of poverty. One of the negative externalities of poverty – poor health conditions – is also one of the largest causes of it. Poor health cripples the poor and renders them unproductive and unable to earn money. Moreover, this places massive financial burdens on poor families who must now care for the sick or, if they can even afford it, procure healthcare. Education thus becomes a means to inculcate an awareness of health risks and foster healthy lifestyles in the poor. This could translate to proper sanitary practices in places like rural India, where open defecation causes high rates of cholera, and where women have very little access to sanitary napkins because they are told periods are sinful, and are forced to use sand, ashes or leaves as substitutes, eventually amounting to high incidences of cervical cancer. With fewer debilitating diseases, people are stronger and healthier and more productive. This also translates to basic family planning – teaching women about the consequences of unregulatedmarital sex and the different avenues of contraception. This empowers women with informed agency to reject childbearing at too young an age, allowing her to go and work so that she is not automatically locked into a domestic role and becomes another financial dependent. This also means lower birth rates so that families struggle less to provide for all their children and have manageable family sizes, helping to mitigate poverty (everybody now gets more money and resources). And for the children who are born, they live healthier, better lives  - educated mothers experience half the child mortality rate of uneducated mothers. All these result in a controlled, healthier population that is better able to work and earn money, unhindered by the financial needs of sick dependents. Clearly, health education uplifts the poor out of poverty.

Lastly, on a larger scale, education also means more wealth creation within underdeveloped economies, allowing economic growth for the entire country.  The countries where poverty rates are the highest are often languishing inprimary or secondary industries such as agriculture, manufacturing and mining. This means that there are low-skill, labour-intensive industries that are also low-paying. The entire country thus languishes in abject economic conditions. Education solves this by enabling industrial improvement and also expansion, but also upgrading into higher industries. An educated population of workers enables countries to, for example, increase automation in manufacturing and agricultural industries, because workers have the know-how to operate the machines, and factory/land owners are smarter and more willing to implement such practices. These industries are now far more efficient, because one machine can replace many humans’ labour and only requires one person to operate it. More profit and a new surplus of workers enable pre-existingindustries to expand and grow, which leads to exponential growth in economic gain due to economies of scale, but also mobilises people with adequate education to start and join new industries. Educated people can now become business entrepreneurs because they are equipped with the necessary skills and even knowledge if they acquire, for example, a degree in business. Now, less labour-intensive and more skills-centric or knowledge-centric industries spring up, such as service industries that have more value-add and hence are more profitable. This could even be the formation of highly knowledge intensive industries like the R&D industry. All of this industrial upgrading generates more profit for the entire nation, which cuts back on poverty in two ways: firstly, as an economy grows and expands, more and better job opportunities are created, because there is a demand for labour. Secondly, the state is now able to redistribute wealth, taken in the form of taxes, back to the poorest in society; either through direct financial aid or via the provision of better, subsidised infrastructure and services -  cheaper healthcare, housing subsidies, education subsidies – that lower costs of living, to empower the poor to attain better standards of living.  
