Detractors often posit that newspapers are obsolete in the digital age, as they are unable to compete with digital platforms on the grounds of convenience and speed. The digital age is one in which news consumers are able to access troughs of information and the latest news at their fingertips. How is this even remotely comparable to the relatively laborious process of buying a daily from a newspaper distributor? In addition to the attendant nuisance of physical bulk, the very nature of the newspaper runs counter to the ideals of convenience – publishers often run countless rounds of fact verification before committing their stories to print - whereas digital media is virtually instantaneous, owing to substantial user bases capable of generating content at a moment’s notice. The rise of citizen journalism in Singapore is a clear example of this. With the prevalence of digital devices among the populace, as evidenced by Singapore’s mobile ownership rate of over 160%, most readers have the newfound power of recording and broadcasting information about events of interest in their communities. This is manifested in countless citizen journalism websites, such as Stomp which are the paragon of timely news reporting.

However, the convenience of online media 	then begs the question of whetherthey can really be trusted. Indeed, it is imperative to acknowledge that the relative expeditiousness of such news forms may come at the cost of their reputation and reliability, which then implies that newspapers, arguably, still have a major role to play in the digital age. Newspapers are still relevant in the digital age because of the factual accuracy and reliability of news that they provide. As mentioned, newspapers companies conduct the laborious routine of fact-checking as part of their internal checks and balances, but this drudgery might well be the key to ensuring that what the public reads is a meticulously edited and accurate reflection of the situation at hand. Insofar as newspapers are concerned, the formidable economic clout they possess predisposes them to more resources, from manpower on the ground to experienced editors. For example, the New York Times has over 100 foreign correspondents situated in 67 countries, which is a testament to the considerable influence such newspaper conglomerates yield. Consequently, first-hand reporting is made possible and perhaps a more realistic and accurate version of news can be reported. It is then a corollary that digital news forms sorely lack this crucial element of objectivity. Being largely user-generated, theprocess through which digital news is generated leaves much in doubt regarding their veracity. More often than not, new media companies resort to sensationalism and exaggeration to drive their stories and grab eyeballs. This is often the answer to the economic imperative that they face – more views or ‘likes’ translate to advertising revenue that funds their operations. While this financial driver is not unique to new media companies, newspapers remain grounded by the equally, if not more important need to uphold journalistic integrity. Worryingly, this fundamental principle is increasingly seen as a peripheral concern by new media agencies, as exemplified by Fox News, an American “alternative news site that purportedly publishes “human interest stories” under the veneer of providing alternate viewpoints. Analysts at the Pew Research Centre have found in a 2013 study on alternate news platforms that over 30% of its content is “exaggerated to a considerable degree”. The digital age has been one that is accompanied by the VUCA (volatile, uncertain, complex, ambiguous) economy; the glut of misleading, or even patently false news online has further asserted the relevance of the newspaper, as many of them remains bastions of truth and reliability in the digital age.

Furthermore, newspapers are still relevant in today’s digital age as they provide thoughtful analyses from a variety of viewpoints that effectively drive discourse.The sphere of influence of prominent newspapers extends to distinguished scholars, who are often invited to grace their columns. They then bring whole new perspectives to the reader, drawing on their wealth of experience in the field. For instance, the Straits Times routinely invites luminaries like Tommy Koh, Ambassador-at-Large, and Fareed Zakaria, an eminent journalist-turned academic to comment on domestic and international affairs alike. These insightful pieces are capable of exposing readers to a multitude of approaches and viewpoints, which may have the effect of inviting public discourse as readers’ long-held beliefs are challenged or questioned. For instance, in the wake of the Arab Spring, where several Gulf states like Tunisia and Egypt attained freedom from decades of dictatorial rule in stunning coups, manypapers such as Al Jazeera (specialising in Middle Eastern affairs) have begun to question its premises by highlighting the true ramifications of these uprisings. What was once a glorious act of collective courage in the public imagination has since acquired shades of controversy, as many who believed in its liberating powers were invited to rethink whether the massive destabilisation brought to these societies was well-handled and whether it is sustainable in the long term. This generated a maelstrom of heated debate on state and international media alike, and out emerged a more well-informed and enlightened populace. By catalysing civic engagement on the pertinent issues of our times, the newspaper ensures its relevance in the present. Even though one might argue that news media also provides these benefits, it might well be the case that due to the high degree of customisability of these platforms, users are often blissfully ensconced in a ‘filter bubble’. By virtue of in-built algorithms, they tend to receive content of a fixed nature, which only serves to reinforce existing bias. Coupled with the potentially polarising reporting on such platforms, the nuances of issues may be lost on readers, and the ill-informed reporting that results is detrimental to healthy discourse. Hence, newspapers maintain their relevance in the digital age for providing insightful analyses on key issues and driving public discourse in a productive way.
