History falls short of having that validity of being held up to a correspondent standard  of absolute truth. Being a discipline fundamentally rooted in the past, the nature of evidence in history is unchangeably limited. In the study of Ancient Greece, we only know what life was like to an Athenian, not a Thebian or a Corinthan. History is ultimately “starred with lacunae” for it is impossible for us to access reality as it really was. What evidence historians can access often only offers a small glimpse of the past. To further complicate matters, historical evidence, being a product of men in the past, fundamentallycontains the bias of firstly, the cultural mores of the time the evidence was produced, and the opinions and biases of the individual through which events are filtered into subjective accounts of what really happened. For instance, accounts of Catherine the Great are more often than not heavily drenched in sexist views that looked unkindly on liberal sexual attitudes in women. These biases are carried forward into the accounts written of her,mostly by the predominantly male royal court around her. Thus, the foundation upon which historical knowledge is built seems in itself limited. The limitations of historical evidence in providing us a pathway to truth in History are further compounded by the necessary subjective investment of the historian. It is commonly agreed that no historian just ‘scissors-and-pastes’ evidence to form a chronicle of the past. Rather, a degree of imagination is required to fill in the gaps inevitably present in the evidence, as mentioned earlier. To fully understand the motivations of the agents in history, the historian invariably has to invest a certain degree of human empathy and postulation about the state of mind of these in the past. However, this opens up many opportunities for subjectivity to manifest, thus undermining the truth of historical claims. As such, it appears that even before the historian can work on his evidence, the inherent subjectivity of the historian has already made objective truth of his historical claims impossible.

The situation does not improve even after the historian has started work – the tool of the historian, language; itself seems fundamentally bound to a set of values and beliefs. It is arguable that no single account of history, no matter how closely linked to the historical evidence available, can be couched in an entirely central language. The very act of describing an event as “liberalization”, rather than an “invasion”, or an “insurgency” rather than a “revolution” betrays the historian’s attitudes towards the purportedly neutral data. Therefore, no historical claim seems to be free of subjectivity, and no historian can claim to be entirely deterred. In light of all these criticisms of History, it appears that it is impossible to achieve absolute truth, or to paint a picture of the past as it really was. Yet, there is a necessary leap from the criticism of subjectivity to that of “lies”. While History fails to access the actual reality of the past, it can give us justified true beliefs of what the past likely looked like, and largely reliable historical knowledge. This is due to, firstly, the close relationship of historical claims with the evidence. Despite an inherent and inescapable subjectivity, History remains tied to and grounded in the facts of the Historian. In the discipline, there is an immense respect for the accuracy of facts, such that it has been hailed as “a duty not a virtue”. This close relationship accounts for common historical debates often taking place only at the margins, around a core largely agreed upon – no one disputes that Mao was integral to the Cultural Revolution. Historians only quibble over the extent of his influence. Therefore, there are still limits to the subjectivity of the historian, allowing us to identify when a historian has overstepped the boundaries of his evidence. Historians claiming that the Holocaust never happened, therefore, can be justifiably determined as simply “wrong”. This ability to discern a degree of truth and falsity in History points to its merits of upholding a certain respect for truth. The accusation of History being “a set of lies”, therefore, goes too far. 

The second point of contention is the basis for standards of truth in History. The correspondence theory of truth is hardly applicable in history. Rather, the coherentist approach of setting out to construct a web of beliefs that are entirely coherent allows for a meaningful pursuit of truth in History. Yet it is undeniable that the place of “agreed upon”, or the subjective standards of agreement may pose limits to the objectivity of history. This is because using human opinions as a standard of truth rather than some other objective measure runs into the problem of theory-ladenness. The historical community has long quibbled over whether Reagan or Gorbachev ended the war, but underpinning this largely dichotomous debate is the GreatMan Theory. This is in comparison to the other fields of knowledge, where the value of reproducibility and repeatability of scientific experiments allow the scientific community to verify one another’s one another’s scientific claims, or even in the social sciences where the postulation of adequacy rests upon the subjects’ agreement with the analysis of their behavior. In fact, it can be argued that the very coherentist nature of historical knowledge necessitates the place of such agreement. And indeed, the collusionary nature of the historical community could be a valid one, for the nature of justification in the construction of historical knowledge does create a capacity to produce a “set of lies”, as long as they are agreed upon.
