Moreover, a viable solution to the issue of food scarcity among the rapidly expanding world population might lie in genetic modification. Genetic scientists have developed crops that are hardier and more resistant to pestilence. These advantageous traits are especially beneficial at a time when the world is experiencing harsher and more extreme climates precipitated by destructive human activities that have resulted in food shortage in many regions. Scorching temperatures and scarce rainfall have left large swathes of the United States in drought, with the ‘breadbasket states’, such as Iowa and Indiana, among the worst affected. The extreme weather conditions have wreaked havoc with the nation’s crop production, particularly maize (corn) and soya beans. Given that the country is the world’s top exporter of maize and one of the largest growers of soya beans, the drought has huge ramifications for global food supplies, but science is providing the much-needed help. Many scientists are trying to unravel the complex crop genetics that allows these crops to tolerate environmental extremes, and they hope to use conventional breeding methods to create varieties that perform even better. There has already been some success with sorghum, which has shown improved productivity in drought conditions that occur late in the growing season in temperate and tropical environments. Moreover, by splicing different genes together, researchers are able to produce organisms with higher nutritional value than their counterparts, for example the Golden Rice with a higher vitamin A content that its counterparts. This could be a crucial development to solving vitamin A deficiency in third world countries that experience limited food variety in their societies. Indeed, this can help to prevent growth retardation, strengthen the immune system and decrease the threat of infections. Furthermore, despite our little understanding of their long term effects, countless studies have been conducted to dispel the public misconceptions of genetically modified food. Studies that seem to demonstrate the dangers of genetically modified food have also been proven to be nothing more than fear mongering on numerous accounts.But in reality, it is upsetting to see many naysayers readily clinging on to such flawed theories that impede the scientific progress that could save a legion of lives. To turn the tide, more education should be made a requisite to upend the prevailing mindset that science is a threat to humanity. In light of such arguments, it would thus be rational to stop stretching the truth that science is a threat but to view it in a balanced light. Many of those denouncing science as a threat are ignorant of the fact that our current living standards are made possible and sustainable through the liberation of the sciences. Granted, science could pose an inconspicuous threat to humanity, thus we should tread carefully and counter its concomitant dangers. Regulatory international bodies like the World Health Organisation and the United Nations can oversee worldwide scientific progress and be prompt in imposing sanctions and galvanising actions against errant groups that abuse science for their selfish interests. Nevertheless, science remains an essential part of our everyday life. Indeed, by learning more about the universe and the phenomena around us, science can be exploited to overcome most of our 21st century challenges. Therefore, it is unwise to stigmatise science as a threat to society and we should instead espouse further scientific endeavours.