The impact of foreigner inflow into Singapore can be viewed from an economic point of view. In this aspect, the impact of foreigners coming into Singapore is favourable as it has helped our economy grow and flourish. This is especially so in Singapore, as we have a shrinking workforce due to an aging population. While the ideal replacement rate should be 2.1, the replacement rate in Singapore is a startling 1.2, which is far lower than the ideal. This leads to a smaller working population, which is an extremely pressing problem sinceSingapore, being without natural resources, must rely on its people to propel its economy. Severe manpower shortages in the country would hence pose a large threat to the vibrancy, efficiency and effectiveness of Singapore’s economy, resulting in us losing our competitive edge in the global arena. This is where foreigners come in. Their increased presence in our society helps fill the gaps in the economy, particularly in the services industry where there is a shortage of workers. Being able to employ sufficient workers to do the job would boost productivity, and ensure that our industries are sustainable. This in turn fuels economic growth in our otherwise stagnant economy, prompting the success of our country. Hence, it can be seen that the impact of the entrance of foreigners in Singapore is positive, particularly in the economic aspect.   

The influx of foreigners into Singapore can also be seen to have exposed Singaporean citizens to different cultures, some on which we might not have had the chance to interact with before. When foreigners move into our society, they do not leave their own cultural identities in their home countries, but they instead bring it with them to Singapore. This is, for example, seen in how different ethnicities in Singapore have their own traditional clothing: the cheongsam for Chinese women, the baju kurung for the Malays, and the sari for Indian women. More importantly, there is also an exchange of culture in the area of fashion. For instance, it is not an uncommon sight to see a Chinese girl in a sari. In fact, it has brought out something uniquely Singaporean. In other words, not only do foreigners expose their cultures to citizens of the new country, and let these citizens understand and better appreciate these new cultures, the introduction of these cultures also influence the existing culture of a country. A local example of this would be none other than ‘Singlish’. This example of ‘Singlish’ clearly illustrates that the culture of foreigners has played a part in the shaping of our current Singaporean heritage. As Singapore was an immigrant society, our ancestors were once thought of as our foreigners as well, and it is only with their entrance into our society do we have what makes up our cultural identities as Singaporeans today.

However, there are those who are less optimistic about the impact of foreigners on Singapore. This view is based on the increased competition for jobs and other scarce resources in Singapore such as housing and the entrance to top schools or universities. With an increased number of people looking for jobs due to the addition of foreigners, the demand for jobs has increased, but as the supply of these jobs remain relatively constant, jobseekers would now face increased competition with their counterparts for the same job. Furthermore, as some foreign workers are willing to work for a lower wage, the original citizens of the country may find themselves subject to depressed or stagnating wages. The movement of more foreigners into our society would also undoubtedly lead to an increase in demand for houses as these newly arrived foreigners would need a place to stay. An increased demand coupled with no change in supply would  further drive property prices up, which contributes to discontent among citizens. Particularly because Singapore is a land scarce country, the impact of increased demand for housing will be all the more severely felt. Lastly, many Singaporeans also hold the mindset that more foreigners would threaten the chances of their children having a place in a top school or university. In a meritocratic society like Singapore where high academic grades are prized, the thought of even more competition compounds the stress both school students and their parents feel. As such, it can be seen that for those on the other end of the spectrum, the impact of foreigners into Singapore society is not something to be celebrated, but to be lamented as it increases competition and places even more stress on the original citizenry of the country.
