Even today, Myanmar's state sanctioned hostility, which arguably is in line with majority interests, is driving out Muslim Rohingyas on dinky boats into dangerous open seas, sparking a refugee crisis whereas Shia favourite Bashar Al-Assad is considered a war criminal for his use of chemical weapons on civilians. Such a list is endless. It only serves to show that the notion of a majority rule only works if a government ensures that human rights (such as "life, liberty and security of person" detailed in Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights) and international law (such as those pertaining to the attack of civilians detailed in the various Geneva Conventions) are not compromised for the sake of the majority. Only such a government that protects the inalienable rights of all human beings in addition to serving the interests of the majority can be considered a "good government" by any sense of the phrase. In addition, the unequivocal pursuit of the wish of the majority rests on another assumption that the majority is qualified to make decisions for the country as a whole. In a time when Thailand, Indonesia and various other countries have ongoing petitions and campaigns aiming to prevent uneducated voters from exercising suffrage and participating in legislative referendums, such an assumption needs to be questioned. The majority may be unqualified to make decisions for three reasons. Majority decisions tend to be uninformed, driven by self-interest, contrary to the beliefs of John Locke, and succumb to populist pressure at the cost of effectiveness. Plato argues in 'The Republic' that it should be the captain who steers the ship, not the passengers, suggesting that it is unwise to let an educated majority decide on matters they have little experience in. This is especially true in countries like Thailand and DR Congo where the phenomenon of "vote buying" -a process in which votes for political candidates are secured by giving monetary incentives to those who are uneducated and in penury - is prevalent. This not only maligns the core principle of good democratic governance that rests on an educated and informed electorate, but also mars the value of the equality of representation by making political decisions a prerogative of the rich. Second, relying on the majority rule could lead to ineffective populist policies that hurt the growth of a nation. This can be demonstrated by a comparative analysis of two countries during the later decades of the previous century - India that depended on populist social welfare policies under the rule of the Gandhis and the Congress Party, and Mao's unpopular decisions (such as the heavy emphasis on capital good production, the one child policy, etc) in China. As a result, India continues to remain in the backwaters of economic success whereas China has succeeded in raising the mean standard of living for its citizens tremendously as reflected in the growth of its Human Development Index. Third, the majority tends to vote keeping personal interests, as opposed to the interests of the nation, in mind. This is evidenced by Donald Trump's win in the primaries and caucuses in Nevada and New Hampshire, among others, despite the fact that his xenophobic closed doors approach towards immigrants contradicts over fifty years of American immigration and foreign policy, once again out of self-interest. Hence, the decisions of the majority should be viewed with suspicion and over-ridden by a "good government", if necessary. 