The question “how much evidence do we need to justify our knowledge claims” seems to expect a homogenous answer. That is simply unfathomable. Various disciplines require different degrees of evidence as justification because the knowledge claims generated by different fields endeavour to fulfil different purposes. A claim made in the field of the sciences requires rigorous justification, for example, because scientific propositions are often used to predict future events and hence need to be reliable for them to be of any use. A scientist therefore undertakes a systematic means of producing his knowledge claims— the scientific method – as a   reliable method ensures that it is more likely for his propositions to be of some use.

On the other hand, not as much justification is required in the field of history as historians largely purport that their goal is to explain the past and not to predict future occurrences, as science aims to do. Presenting an inaccurate knowledge claim in history is therefore far less serious than botching up a scientific knowledge claim as the latter mistake could lead to serious direct ramifications such as the loss of lives if one claims that all humans need oxygen and therefore, a doctor provides a new human patient with oxygen to save his life but unwittingly ends up killing him because the claim is false. Thus, the purpose of the knowledge claim made influences the degree of evidence required for justification.  Secondly, the nature of the knowledge claim made also significantly influences the amount of evidence required to justify it. Take for example the claim that “all triangles have three sides”. No justification is required for this statement to be considered knowledge because it is self-evident. The subject — triangle — necessarily entails the predicate — having three sides. These relations of ideas are hence exempted from the arduous process of justification. One can compare these statements to matters of fact — statements about the world around us — which require far more evidence as they are not self-evident.

Philosophers who disavow radically skeptical stances such as “we can only know what we are certain of” also espouse the view that some things do not need to be justified or only require minimal justification. G. E. Moore, for instance, argued that one does not need “clear and distinct ideas” to serve as evidencefor our justification of the existence of an external world. He opines that we merely need to hold up our two hands in front of us and observe their existencefor if they exist, reality must too exist. This argument is favored by him because he views it to be commonsensical and far more believable11 than skeptical arguments like the evil demon argument which outlines the possibility that the eponymous demon could be tricking us into not believing that reality exists when in fact it does not. Therefore, Moore’s stance implies a belief that we need enough evidence for aa knowledge claim to be believable on its own and more believable than other contrary claims. Wittgenstein too subscribed to this view as he was convinced that philosophers had set far too strict standards for what can and should be considered knowledge. Instead, he proposed that we adopt a layman’s definition of knowledge. In so doing, a ridiculous amount of evidence is no longer required for every knowledge claim (like Descartes demanded).Rather, one only needs to put forth enough evidence to convince one’s audience that one’s knowledge claim is justified. Take for example a girl’s knowledge that Beyonce is in Singapore. Her friend would be satisfied knowingthat the claim is corroborated by other forms of evidence like photos of the singer performing on social media and news reports. Further justification will simply not be exhorted. 
