This was the case in Libya, following the removal of Gadaffi from power and in Egypt with Mubarak - other countries carry little legitimacy and political will to follow through with the implementation of necessary democratic institutions, leaving a once hostile region up for grabs. This resulted in a military junta in Egypt and a civil war in Libya, further achieving results contrary to the professed objective of military intervention that was liberation from the shackles of oppression. To further this argument on why intervention is indefensible even when intervention is successful, the law of unintended consequences negates any past benefits of intervention through the emergence of dire consequences in the future. In the case of Afghanistan, CIA Operation Cyclone that trained the Mujahideen to fight oppressive forces failed miserably when it birthed the depraved terror network we know as Al Qaeda today. Likewise in South Sudan, the implementation of a Dinka-led Transitional Government of National Unity led to animosity between Dinka and Neuer ethnicities, leading to massacres along ethnic lines ongoing today. These reasons illustrate that foreign intervention cannot be justified as they worsen the lives of the very people they aim to improve in more ways than one. Additionally, economic intervention whether direct or through media such as the World Bank debilitate the very economies they aspire to serve, making them largely unjustifiable. Prima facie, economic intervention in developing countries injects much needed financial capital to nurture them, thus seeming justifiable. However, this na•ve notion is flawed on multiple levels. First, it must be noted that economic intervention almost exclusively comes with strings attached. This can be seen in how the World Bank's attempts to intervene in African nations in the 1990s through micro finance programmes have largely failed to achieve success. To the contrary, they have crippled these economies by eliciting in debt collections over twenty billion USD per anum. Similarly, Greece was crippled by punitive sovereign debt that deprived its central bank and government the ability to flex its fiscal muscle, precluding its ability to exercise fiscal autonomy. This was because other countries had the contractual upper hand in demanding for their money back. Second, even when intervention itself comes with no strings attached, countries subject themselves to the diplomatic whims and fancies of the interventionists, hence mortgaging future economic growth for short lived boosts in economic performance. Angola watched itself give up sixty percent of oil assets to Chinese multinationals following their intervention in the Angolan economy whereas Yemen watched its economy crumble at the hands of the United States that suspended all USAID intervention programmes on the eve of the first Gulf War when the Yemeni ambassador voted against a United States resolution advocating for military intervention in Iraq in the Security Council. Third, ignorance of the intervening countries may inadvertently debilitate the economies they intervene in, even in the rare instances where there are few or no strings attached. What seemed like benevolent assistance, US intervention in the Guyana economy crippled it when US products displaced the local market mechanism by introducing superior but cheaper US products, thereby driving local Guyanese products out of the market, and forcing local producers to poverty. Such was also the case in Mozambique. What is known to economists as the 'Dutch Disease Effect' further erodes the competitiveness of countries intervened in, crippling them in the long run. 