Across the world, the pioneering of new communication technologies has allowed us to become more aware of the extent of diversity across the globe, and this should be celebrated as it has led to greater cooperation within the international community. The Internet has made it easier for individuals to learn languages on their own, and this has in particular led to greater ease of communication between regular individuals and even political leaders, allowing them to communicate with each other in a more relaxed and friendly atmosphere while also ensuring that parties can get their points across without the fear of miscommunication. This is evident through the rise of English as a universal language over the past 10 years, with a Washington Post article in 2015 marking the number of countries which English is spoken in at 101, making it the most popular language in the world. The popularity of English even in countries where the language is not the native tongue has allowed not only business and politics to be carried out with greater ease, it has also allowed the average individual to make interpersonal connections with each other from across the globe. Linguistic diversity, and the willingness to accept and adapt to this diversity, has thus allowed languages to spread all over the globe, having a positive impact on the way people around the planet communicate and brought us all closer together, benefiting our political relations, economy and general way of life. In a way, diversity begets even more diversity, enriching the daily lives and experiences of individuals. 

Diversity should also be celebrated due to the positive effect it has on the global economy. The rise of globalisation in the early 2000s allowed many industries to in fact grow and learn from their compatriots overseas, by allowing companies to venture beyond their own shores. Countries such as Singapore are gleaming examples of the benefits of diversity in the workplace as greater diversity has allowed people in the workforce to learn from one another and improve their methods of trade and production. This understanding underpinned Singapore’s immigration policies, which were concretized as Singapore sought to transit from manufacturing to high-tech and value-added activities in the 1980s. Similarly, the spread of German engineering methods and Arabian textile production methods have allowed these practises to be replicated to varying degrees across the world, improving the overall quality and efficiency in these industries. A more historical example would be the development of Europe and the United States of America during the Industrial Revolution. Researchers from Brown University have suggested that the ‘openness to other cultures’, measured in terms of geographical isolation, were key to the transfer of technological skills rooted in certain cultures, underpinning rapid economic development. The improved quality of products and the improved monetary benefits that have come as a result of cultural exchange signifies the positive benefits that diversity in the workforce has brought upon the global economy as knowledge of better and more efficient methods of work in countless different industries can be shared and collectively improved on by people with different expertise from different parts of the world in order to grow the global economy.

The benefits of diversity should also be celebrated when you consider the positive effects that diversity has had on the healthcare and wellness industry across the world. Increased diversity in the healthcare and wellness industry has led to the rapid spread of many new and unique methods of treating illnesses, and introduced a vast array of health foods to the masses which have never been heard of before. Increased diversity in the healthcare industry specifically has allowed doctors to learn and study diseases which are mostly geographically contained such as monkeypox in Africa and attempt to treat them with Western or Eastern styles of medicine and treatment in order to address the problem in the countries that it is affecting, as well as prevent it from spreading to individuals in other parts of the world. Nobel laureate Tu Youyou drew inspiration from Traditional Chinese Medicine and alternative medicine, widely decried as ‘pseudo-science’ in the West, in order to discover artemisinin, a useful chemical component in the fight against malaria. Similarly, the spread of health foods such as the Acai berry in the past few years was brought from relative obscurity to fame by those from South America, more specifically Brazil, where it has been a popular health snack for a long time. Diversity in the healthcare and wellness industry has allowed the world to become better prepared and healthier by improving not only what we eat but also the ways we tackle illnesses and diseases through the sharing of different cultures’ knowledge and resources, improving the overall quality of life around the globe. It has allowed us to celebrate a time of unprecedented advancement in our healthcare systems and practices and drastically improved our quality of life in ways which would have been simply unimaginable otherwise. 

