Why are individual freedoms desirable, then, or even worth protecting from the all-seeing eye of Big Brother? I venture to argue that individual freedoms, including the right to privacy and non-scrutiny, form the basis of happiness, which is presumably the ultimate goal of society. Even if individual freedoms are not explicitly curtailed by despotic regimes, but instead indirectly curtailed by sympathetic and paternalistic governments, this too might affect the happiness of individuals who otherwise might be able to live life in accordance with their own wishes. Contemporary philosopher Michel Foucault goes one step further in suggesting that the lack of privacy is directly connected to the loss of freedom and thus the loss of happiness through the concept of panopticism. Foucault suggests that external surveillance and the intrusion of privacy associated with this surveillance is ultimately internalised, and each person becomes his or her own guard. This greatly reduces people’s freedom of expression, and the happiness associated with that freedom of living according to their own wishes. A study published by the Applied Research in Quality of Life suggests that an increase in freedoms correlates with an increase in happiness. This understanding and desire presumably underpin historical struggles for freedom, from the ‘Baltic Way’, where more than two million people formed a human chain across Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania to protest the despotism of the Soviet Union, to the French Revolution, and to how “Wallace fought for Scotland, left the name of Wallace to be found, like a wild flower, all over his dear country”. This suggests that individual freedoms are worth fighting for, and as established earlier, the erosion of the right to privacy ultimately cumulates into the erosion of individual freedoms, and should thus be decried. The right to have a life that is private and non privy to the prying eyes of the state is thus essential despite the risks it entails as without privacy, individuals will not be able to live their lives the way the want and express their true selves, effectively destroying the uniqueness and imaginative joy that makes life worth living.

However, with the rising threat of crime and violence, the protection of privacy might not be as worthwhile as the need to protect people from acts of mass terror and violence may outweigh this. The ability to monitor individuals would allow states to better address the issues of rising crime and terror by giving them an avenue to better track individuals with a greater risk of being involved in criminal activities. States will also be able to set up alert systems to highlight any actions by individuals that could possibly lead to potentially damaging terrorist or criminal activity such as the planning of crimes of terror attacks by people within their borders. Allowing governments access to sensitive information would have allowed law enforcement agencies to prevent many of the attacks perpetrated by radicals and criminals such as the shooting at a mosque in Christchurch in March 2019 and the multiple school shootings that have taken place in America over the years. In fact, concerns about privacy have actively impeded pre-emptive measures and investigations. Former Federal Bureau of Investigation chief James Comey argued that encrypted messaging platforms, meant to safeguard the privacy of individual users, deprive governments and intelligence agencies of crucial information, “giving terrorists a tremendous advantage against us”. Letting go of the desire for privacy might be the necessary sacrifice that will allow governments to finally get a step ahead of these criminals and extremists as the individualised nature of international terrorism and crime today makes it harder and harder for defence agencies to track and protect us against these threats, which could come from anywhere, even from the people living right next door. Relinquishing the right to privacy might be the only way to allow states to properly address the ever changing and complex network of international crime and terror, and protect us from the many different threats that are brewing just under the surface of society.

The protection of privacy is furthermore not worthwhile, as it may prevent people and states from taking responsibility for the actions and being held accountable. While privacy is largely individual, it also extends to states when they are being scrutinised by other nations. Allowing both states and individuals to hide behind the shield of privacy allows people of power to basically go about doing whatever they please without fear of condemnation, if they have significant enough means to keep news of their actions contained. For example, countries such as China have long been using the argument of privacy and national sovereignty to prevent the international community from properly investigating accusations of human rights violations against Chinese Muslims in Xinjiang that have been made against them. The country has used its power in the international community and political red tape to assert that what happens within the country is a private Chinese matter that the international community has no business in. Examples such as this illustrate how the idea of privacy can be used in order to prevent entities from being held accountable for their actions, instead hiding behind privacy as a means of burying and news about their actions. Thus, the protection of privacy is not worthwhile when privacy is just used as a tool to conceal the actions of people and states from the outside world in order to shield themselves from having to deal with the eventual repercussions of these actions, and continue to carry out these atrocities without fear of condemnation due to the protection that privacy give them.
