The media often reinforces gender stereotypes in media entertainment, through the way each gender is portrayed. For example, in the majority of mainstream movies, the main character is generally male, and the secondary character is female. The female is always second or portrayed as subservient to the man. This can be seen in all genres, from action movies such as the 'James Bond' series, to romantic dramas like 'The Notebook', and even in family-based movies such as 'Cheaper by the Dozen', which focuses mainly on the comedic conflict between two families’ fathers. And more often than not, women playing this secondary or supporting character are heavily romanticized, acting mainly as the love interest to the male. This propagates a certain mindset in viewers that women are meant to be second to men, and often their main role and focus of a relationship with a man is meant to be based on romance and passive love. Men, on the other hand, are usually portrayed as fierce, opinionated, strong main characters, who take on the role of saving the day, solving the problem, saving the damsel in distress (which further reinforces the romanticized and unequal relationship between male and female). This gives male viewers a skewed notion that as men, it is their duty to be the hero, to be at the centre of the issue and to resolve the crisis in the end. This exerts a specific pressure on males, then, to step up and assume the role of the alpha in various situations. As a result, these contrasting stereotype roles placed on men and women respectively work as polarizing forces as men begin to believe they need to be dominating, while women feel they need to be subservient,  reinforcing the gender stereotype  and thus inequality, in society.

Secondly, advertising and marketing in media also plays a significant role in reinforcing gender stereotypes, which leads to widening the inequality between women and men. Looking at the marketing of children’s toys alone, we can see how these stereotypes are imposed on society. If you walk down the aisle of a toy store, most likely the toys will be split into a boys’ section and a girls’ section. The boys’ section will be mostly full of blue, black or green toys, colours that are considered “masculine”, while the girls’ toys are usually pink, purple or white, which are “feminine” colours. Studies have shown that malespecific toys have representations of many occupations which encourage adventure, exploration and innovation – action figures of astronauts, race cardrivers, construction builders, cowboys and so on – and toys that stimulate their critical thinking and intellectual abilities, such as LEGO, which is very popular with boys but less so with girls. On the other hand, girl-specific toys limit themselves to representing very domestic, nurturing and docile roles – dolls that are princesses, teachers, dancers and more – and girl-specific toys are usually more related to whimsical and frivolous activities like having tea parties, or domestic activities such as cooking. The disparity of what children are exposed to, especially at such a young age, narrows their perception of the scope of what they as a girl or boy can do – boys feel that they can engage in challenging, adventurous tasks and can pursue unconventional, boundarypushing jobs in the future, while girls may feel that it is more appropriate to take on domestic, nurturing roles in society and in the workplace. Conversely, boys feel it inappropriate to engage in domestic or nurturing tasks, as it is “for the girls to do”. This sort of gender stereotypes in marketing toys causes a vicious cycle, where the expectations of each gender are reinforced repeatedly, causing the inequality to widen.

Finally, the type of news coverage on each gender is also very specific and hence limiting, which contributes to the flawed perception of gender roles. Research shows that many women who are featured in news articles or interviews for being successful individuals in their own sector are often asked questions related to their personal life, or how they balance their work and family. Instead of placing emphasis on their achievements and contributions to the particular sector, the media often focuses on the woman in relation to thepre-conceived ideas of female gender roles. Men, however, firstly get a greater quantity of news coverage and the type of coverage revolves mainly around their occupation, their contributions and their achievements. This yet againpropagates the idea that men are more capable than women occupation- or achievement-wise, while women have the higher hand in all things domestic.
