Although some might claim that Singapore's lack of natural resources was a significant hindrance and thus, the reliance on its manpower was pivotal in Singapore's success Thus, a country's geography may not always be the most crucial aspect that could determine a country's success - it is the people and their unwavering resilience and their blood, sweat and tears that mould the country's success. Furthermore, the people of a country play a significant role in catalysing change in a country that leads it towards achieving success. The people of a country have incredible power when it comes to making change - a political or economic one - which can prove to be very beneficial for a country in the long run. For example, in the Arab Spring of 2011, when people in countries such as Tunisia began to realise the tyranny that they had been living under, utilised social media to catalyse immense change which has, till today, left an imprint on the minds of many people. The change that they wanted lay in the economic aspects of life as they wanted access to jobs, and most of all they wanted a change in government that would enable an improvement in their quality of life. In this case, it is irrefutable that the people took the initiative to engage in mass demonstrations, and this shaped the path for success because Tunisia, for one did experience a change in government that was certainly better than she previous one. Geography, in this case, had a domino effect on the Middle East as people in different countries around the region begin to revolt. Although not all of them achieved success as a result of the Arab Spring with Tunisia triggering it off, it is a testament of the power that people have in their countries to change and improve their quality of life. Thus people play an important role in the success of a country in terms of the quality of life, because they can spark off change that could benefit the future generations.The government too, plays a role in determining the success of a country, other than its people and its geography. The government of a country is undoubtedly a key player when it comes to shaping a country's success their policies and judiciousness determine the fiscal outlook, the overall welfare and the technological progress of a country. Singapore's economic policies, for one, have been incredibly beneficial in propelling its economy, aforementioned, and even today it has one of the highest Gross Domestic Products (GDPs) in the world. An instance of the failure of a government that prevented the country's success would be that of USA. In 2013, the government experienced a shutdown in 2013, because the Democratic Senate and the Republican House of Representatives were not able to come to a consensus regarding the Obamacare. and this sixteen-day shut down caused the loss of thousands of jobs in the civil service and an estimated loss of $21.6 billion. This is testament to the role that governments play in the success of a country, as they hold the reins when it comes to economics and other key factors such as defence. Therefore, the government is a key player too in determining the success of a country because it has the power to change the economic landscape of a country, in determining other factors that play a part in contributing to  the success of a country.In conclusion, this essay largely disagrees with the given statement in the question that a country's success is determined by its geography and not its people, because this is not only an extreme stand but also fails to acknowledge that the people too play a part in shaping the future and success of a country. The government too, aside from geography and the people of a country determines the success of a nation. More than a geography may act as leverage: for against others in the global arena, and it plays a complementary role towards success in comparison to other key determining factors of success. The fundamental factor that leads the country to its success is the people - not only do they ultimately form the government but they are important stakeholders who determine form the government but they are important stakeholders who determine the political, social and economic course of a country.