In ancient times, true democracy is one where the entire population has a say in all decisions in the country. Such a system has flaws such as the long time period that is required to collate all the votes and even so, the decision made might not entirely benefit the population, as not all voters have the necessary knowledge to evaluate the claims made by their representatives and arrive at a rational choice. This brings us to our current definition of democracy where voters elect a representative to represent their views and vote for decisions which benefit his supporters. The predominance of democracy has come a long way since the post-cold war era, which was marked by the massive popularity of 2 major opposing ideologies, communism and democracy. However, in the past decades, a slew of eventful historical developments had eventually resulted in democracy emerging victorious. Although it may be too bold to assert that the ends justified the means, I do believe that democracy is often the best, given that certain modifications are undertaken. As with any other political systems, democracy is not without its flaws. The benefits of democracy could possibly be reversed by factors such as the limited knowledge of the population, selfish human nature and the huge power gap between the political representatives and the general public. Therefore, to reap the most advantages of democracy, such limitations would have to be adequately addressed with supplementary measures.Indeed, proponents of democracy argue that democracy is usually the best as it gives people the ultimate power to vote the government. In Singapore, every adult member of the populace, who is 21 years old and above, will get to vote a representative into government in a general election held once every 5 years. Democracy enables the fair representation of the interests of every adult, regardless of their socio-economic status. Through voting, everyone will get a chance to choose their political direction or inclination, and thus the political representatives and party that further their individual interests. Therefore, on a broader scale, the political party that claims the highest votes will head the government. In most countries where the ordinary working class constitutes the bulk of the populace, the elected political party may be deemed populistic. Thus, it could be opined that the majority of the decisions made may benefit most of the population and be generally deemed the best for a country. This perspective is in line with the principle of utilitarianism which advocates the proper evaluation of policies in light of their effect on the general well-being of the populations they involve. However, decisions made by the population may not be the best even if it is a fair representation of the people. During elections, political parties are often caught up in winning votes that they often present misleading information or present alternative policies with inadequate research. A country with such a warped political system would be India, which had seen 15 prime ministers head the country since its independence in 1954 with the shortest term limited to two hundred and thirty three days. 