The inexorable forces of globalisation have swept the global community. For better or for worse, the world is increasingly interconnected and integrated in terms of our economy, politics, and people. This has engendered a situation where one country’s internal affairs can easily create spillover effects that will affect other countries. Furthermore, many countries have taken it upon themselves to intervene in other countries’ affairs, be it militarily, politically or via provision of foreign aid. A cursory examination of the issue may lead one to conclude that, indeed, foreign intervention may be desirable and hence justified as it provides salvation for a country confronted by difficult circumstances. However, lessons from the past and present have led me to take a more pessimistic view of the situation: I believe that foreign intervention in another country’s problems is largely unjustified, especially in view of how such “intervention” is carried out today – often with hegemonic, self-interested and regrettably vicious intentions. The only exception would be when countries truly attempt to intervene with altruistic motives, but such instances are few and far between. Before we overly condemn foreign intervention as utterly unjustified, I would first like to qualify that, to some extent, it can be warranted should intervention be based on moral and altruistic grounds. This view may seem highly idealistic taking into account the realpolitik nature of foreign policies practised by many countries, but such examples of noble intervention exist. For instance, in the aftermath of the devastating Cyclone Nargis experienced by Myanmar, the country was thrown into turmoil as infrastructure was destroyed, large populations were displaced from their homes, and the government was plunged into a tumultuous state. As a symbol of goodwill, ASEAN nations took it upon themselves to intervene in the situation, sending aid and manpower to Myanmar to help ameliorate the crisis. Slowly but surely, the country began to get back on its feet, undoubtedly with the assistance of its neighbouring counterparts. What was interesting was that, following this, the Myanmese military junta was more open to hold talks with ASEAN leaders, and was also more willing to acquiesce to the demands of ASEAN. Arguably, this was a step in the right direction towards building bridges with a previously isolated country and helping to put Myanmar on the path towards free and democratic intervention.  Admittedly, when foreign intervention is carried out with goodwill and no hidden agenda whatsoever, then the aid provided will be channelled towards areas where the recipient country is truly deficient in and more likely be effective in remedying its problems. Furthermore, in a global context, such actions create mutual trust and goodwill between countries which is paramount in establishing regional stability. Therefore, in such a context of intervention being provided based on moral motivations, I would concede that foreign intervention is justified and, in fact, highly welcomed.

In the same vein, others may argue that foreign intervention is justified as it provides salvation to a country that is unable to help itself, and in so doing, prevents negative spillover effects in the region. In certain situations, be it natural disasters or wars, weaker and poorer nations may be immobilised andweighed down , their governments unable to undertake the propermeasures to alleviate the problems. For instance, during the Gulf War in the 1990s, when Saddam Hussein’s Iraq first invaded Kuwait and overran the country, the Kuwaitis were left shocked, helpless and oppressed. And with a weak military force, they could do nothing but wait helplessly for help from foreign neighbours. Threatened by Saddam’s expansionist agendas and afraid that they too would be targets of his aggression, Kuwait’s Middle-Eastern neighbours, with help from the US, decided to intervene, driving Iraqi forces back to its border and liberating Kuwait. Ostensibly, it seems that countries subject to unfortunate “black swan” events have no power whatsoever to defend themselves from incoming threats. Moreover, it is highly possible that the sea of negative repercussions they experience can easily flood over to other countries, especially in view of the increasing interconnectedness of economies and socio-political affairs of countries. By virtue of safeguarding their own natural welfare and existence, some argue that it is hence necessary for countries to intervene in others’ problems. However, I believe that based on interventionist actions adopted by many countries historically, it is regrettably to conclude that many simply use “intervention” as a false pretext for their own hegemonic ambitions, often at the expense of the nations they attempt to interfere with, making such intervention largely unjustified. In all honesty, if Kuwait was not of strategic use to the US and her Middle-Eastern allies, would they have intervened at all? Probably not. Would Kuwait have been left to her condemned fate under Saddam Hussein’s regime? Quite possibly. Sadly, global politics tends to follow realpolitik, where actions taken by nations are largely underpinned by pragmatism and the need to protect national self-interests, even if that means bringing harm unto another. Time and again, we have witnessed how nations intervene in another’s affairs, only to let them burn to the ground when they are no longer of any significance. Fast-forward a decade from the Kuwaiti invasion, and we have the US invasion of Saddam’s Iraq, this time under the pretext of Iraq owning chemical weapons and employing them against civilians. But when the invasion ended, no weapons were ever found, and many international theorists believe that the true intention of the American invasion was to safeguard oil in the Middle East, while the official line of chemical weapons was merely a duplicitous pretext. Furthermore, after ousting Saddam, the US military quickly withdrew its forces, leaving a power vacuum that caused a power struggle that swept the nation like a hurricane. Sectarian violence between the Sunnis and Shiites ensued, and this eventually led to the rise of extremist group ISIS. One would question, then: What good ever came out of that invasion besides fulfilling the US’ own self-pursuits? In fact, it is all the more insidious that “foreign intervention” is used as a tool by power-hungry nations to masquerade their selfish agendas as justified and democratic, at the expense of the host country’s welfare. Clearly, foreign intervention in such scenarios is highly undesirable.

Furthermore, nations often intervene in what they feel is the best way possible, but fail to realise that their method often fails to bear fruit and is hence unwarranted. For example, when nations intervene by providing aid to other countries, it often comes in the form of monetary and food aid, but these are often short-term solutions that fail to create sustainable solutions. The 2002 Monterrey Consesus, for instance, witnessed the developed world pledging to allocate 0.7% of its GNP to the Third World. Every year since, billions of dollars have been donated to African states7, but most of the aid fails to reach the most needy, because they end up lining the pockets of corrupt rulers. Moreover, however much aid eventually trickles down to the people oftenprovide temporary relief, it does not solve the root cause of poverty. Lowskilled, uneducated labour, poor economic infrastructure, and corrupt political system are factors that have continued to plague these nations and perpetuate foreign countries who intervene should aim to providing only monetary and resource aid, they not only with skills to propel themselves out of their destitute plight, but also exacerbate the situation by creating a cycle of dependency on aid. Instead, nations have to realise that the right way to intervene is to provide social reform initiatives and economic restructuring guidance to lift countries out of their tragic state. But of course, most countries remain indifferent to this, providing aid simply to fulfil their moral obligations but not actually concerned with how their aid will benefit thepeople in the long run. It is this apathy and ignorance that causes countries to adopt incontrovertibly facile solutions in an attempt to solve infinitely more complex problems, and this is what makes their “intervention” so futile and unnecessary. To aggravate the situation, some countries even adopt policies that will jeopardise any benefits that their aid has provided. For example, the US donates about USD 32 billion a year to African states, but concurrently adopts protectionist measures by imposing high tariffs on African agricultural imports to protect local farmers, which is estimated to cost the African agricultural industry about USD 50 billion, more than the worth of aid provided. Sadly, when push comes to shove and a conflict of interest arises, nations will ultimately choose to protect themselves, rendering such aid ineffective.