The progress of society has in fact allowed for the increasing preservation of heritage and traditions in society. The leaps that society has made in technology and research have allowed traditions and historical events to be better analysed and documented than ever before. They have allowed us to sift through hundreds of years of heritage and digitise historical records. This ensures that information deemed crucial to the heritage of diverse cultures across the world is safely and securely stored, and that these cultures continue to thrive in the modern world. In 2018, one of the world’s biggest museums, the Smithsonian, announced that it will be embarking on a grand project to digitise much of its existing collection of artefacts and fossils, making them more accessible to academics and the general public. This endeavour not only allows for a more comprehensive catalogue of artefacts to be recorded, but also ensures that the history and heritage of these artefacts are protected should anything happen to the physical artefacts themselves. Somali Architecture uses archival research and 3D modelling to replicate and preserve buildings from pre-war Mogadishu and which were destroyed during the Somalian civil war. The Digital Giza Project is another such example: by digitising over 40 years of archaeological discoveries online and displaying them through 3D models, it has allowed anyone around the world – academic or not – to experience the amazing heritage that the history of Egypt has to offer through the use of modern technology. The digitising of all these pieces of history allows society to ensure that our heritages are maintained as even if events such as the one that brought down the great Library of Alexandria and destroyed all its historical record and artefacts were to happen, the heritage of its collection would live on in the digital world. Thus, the world’s progress has created new avenues for us to ensure the preservation of our heritage and traditions by making it easier to protect the artefacts and knowledge that give life to our heritage, highlighting how technological advancement and heritage can indeed exist harmoniously within modern society.

The progress made in society has also led to rise in awareness of the heritage that different groups across the world hold dear. With the world now feeling smaller than it ever has before due to the prominence of social media and the Internet, cultural knowledge and traditions from all over the world, across space and time, are at our fingertips. The online community has given new life to traditional practices and stories by curating and presenting them to people all across the world through digital platforms, raising the overall profile of the heritage of different communities and lifting them out of obscurity. The increase in knowledge about New Zealand’s Maori community for instance has increased global awareness of the heritage of New Zealand, as traditional Maori practises such as the Haka are performed during sporting events on television screens around the world. Platforms like Google Arts and Culture similarly allow the public to access high-resolution images of artworks housed in famous museums across the world. The progress that has been made with technology has thus allowed communities around the world to practise their traditions in front of a wider audience, raising the awareness of the different heritages and traditions that exist around the world, ensuring that these practises, traditions and knowledge that make up a community’s heritage continue to live and thrive for years to come. With the world continuing to progress, it has in fact created a more conducive and comfortable environment for its different heritages to grow and prosper by giving these heritages a new voice through the avenue of technology and social media.

However, there are often times when the preservation of heritage conflicts with and obstructs progress, preventing communities from improving due to their loyalty to heritage. The road to progress can often be destructive, with people having to sacrifice in order to advance. Oftentimes, progress can only be achieved if we are willing to give up our traditions and heritage as the resources that are important to these traditions are needed for the future. This struggle between heritage and progress can be seen in Singapore as the country continues to struggle with the issue of land scarcity while attempting to maintain the heritage of the country through the preservation of small, old buildings such as shophouses, which if allowed to be torn down to make way for new developments, could go a long way to solving the land scarcity issue. European cities like Prague, Krakow and Budapest often struggle to incorporate future urban development while preserving historical architecture, resulting in intricate and complex urban planning patterns centred around relics of the past. The nostalgia that many communities feel towards places and objects of their heritage can often cloud their judgement when it comes to the bigger goal of the community as they are unwilling to sacrifice their heritage to solve their modern problems. Thus, heritage often comes into direct conflict with progress as the only way to allow the world to continue to progress is sometimes to let go of our heritage and let progress take its place. 


