In today's fast-paced world where knowledge and speed have become increasingly crucial, the various branches of science have made notable advancements to deepening our  understanding of the natural order, as well as benefitting mankind in multiple ways. From tightening security measures to preventing terrorism to creating new medicines to cure  diseases, scientific advancements seemingly have noble intentions to benefit people in  several ways. However, the rapid advancement of science has also led to its misuse. With the rise of profit-driven companies and terrorist groups, many become ambivalent about the 'noble' intentions of science. Hence, while it is compelling to concede that the various branches of science have noble intentions to benefit mankind, science can nonetheless inflict harm and unleash massive destruction on the human race if it falls into the wrong hands. First, people have enjoyed the scientific advancements that encompass high moral principles.Extensive medical research has vastly strengthened the understanding of the human biology and expanded the range of cures for previously untreatable maladies. For example, the discovery of the structure of DNA was a fundamental breakthrough in biology. It formed the underpinnings of research that would ultimately lead to a wide variety of practical applications, including DNA fingerprinting, genetically engineered crops, and tests for genetic diseases. Vaccination is also one of the greatest breakthroughs in modern medicine. No other medical intervention has done more to save lives and improve quality of life. Smallpox ravaged and killed thousands of people in Europe in the 18th century. Once a person had caught it, the disease would kill around a third of victims and leave survivors scarred or blinded. Thankfully, smallpox was officially wiped out in 1980. If it were still common, it would cause an estimated 2 million deaths every year around the world. Science's noble intention has been vividly manifested in the many lives it has saved and the prolonging of man's life expectancy. According to the 2014 CIA World Factbook, the average global mortality rate between 1950 and 1955 was about 19.5%. However, between 2010 and 2015, the average mortality rate halved to below 8.3%while the life expectancy of the people around the world increased by 25 years over the same period. Hence in the aspect of medical science, it is reasonable to claim that science has lofty intentions.

Furthermore, the twin weapons of science and technology possess the noble intention of boosting efficiency and convenience in people's everyday lives as well as preventing potential crimes beforehand. Modern science has dramatically reduced the time taken to accomplish a host of pursuits through technological breakthroughs and increasing mechanisation, and has led to a more interconnected world economy, which is a powerful driver of growth, productivity, job creation and poverty reduction. On top of the rapid development of information and communications technology, the evolution of modern transportation has also contributed to a 'shrinking' world. Indeed, the present day aircraft has allowed people to travel around the world, cutting significant amount of time if people were to travel by traditional methods. And China is one giant beneficiary of such forces of globalisation, evident in its high GDP growth. Since its market reforms began, the economy enjoyed a historically unprecedented growth rate - an average annual growth rate of about 9 per cent for 25 years. In the last 3 decades, China alone has lifted more people out of extreme poverty than the rest of the world combined. Indeed, China's ($1/day) poverty reduction of 627 million from 1981 to 2005 exceeds the total global economy's decline in its extremely poor from 1.9 billion to 1.4 billion over the same period. The proven applications of science have thus underscored its noble intention of creating a more efficient and accessible global village for all of us to live in.

However, with the rise of capitalism and profit-maximising enterprises, the noble intentions of science may have become less apparent. Indeed, in a capitalist world where monetary gains are used as a yardstick of economic and social success, many individuals and companies exploit science for greater profits but at a huge social cost. Few years ago, a multinational giant Monsanto introduced a genetically modified corn, which they claimed to be highly resistant to pests and could withstand extreme weather conditions. However, the genetically modified corn was found to have significantly disrupted liver and kidney functions according to a study released by the International Journal of Biological Sciences. Despite the findings, Monsanto continues to disregard the product safety concerns that threaten public health in pursuit of profits. Such self-serving behaviour may be traced to the selfish intentions of science, that is to amass wealth for oneself at the expense of others. Hence, there may be less incentive for science to have honourable intentions at all times under the modern capitalist system where the primary goal is the accumulation of individual wealth without any regard to a moral compass. In conclusion, science often bears noble intentions to benefit humanity, in ways such as prolonging and saving lives, heightening productivity and paving the way for one world marked by unprecedented global economic and social development . However, as Albert Einstein had said, 'Most people say that it is the intellect which makes a great scientist. They are wrong: it is character', some capitalists may use science to fulfil their self-interests instead.