Proponents of the uniting power of sports often cite the ostensibly nonpolitical nature of sports. Throughout history, major sporting events have managed to unite groups of people embroiled in conflict, even temporarily. For example, during the 2002 FIFA World Cup, amidst heightening political tensions and conflict, South Korea and Japan managed to put aside their differences in order to collaborate for the sake of a successful World Cup4, with the competition eventually helping the two Asian powerhouses forge a new path of international diplomacy and co-operation. More recently, opposing factions in the civil war in Ivory Coast switched their guns for television remote controls, with a ceasefire called to allow the country to support the national football team in the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. In such cases, it is seen that the passion and interest in sports is universal, existing in every person, regardless of race, religion or creed. It is precisely this universal appeal of sports that seems to allow people with vast cultural differences, and even people engaged in fierce conflict, to look past their differences and find a common interest among them. This common interest contributes to increased global integration by reducing people’s perception of the differences between them. Therefore, it is argued that the universal appeal of competitive sports allows it to be an effective catalyst for change in this increasingly divided world of ours.

However, it is my belief that such an argument is over-simplistic and neglects the complexity and politically-influenced nature of modern sports. There is no doubt that modern sports has greatly evolved and transformed from the time of the ancient Greeks. Today, modern sports training requires advanced facilities and extensive resources. 5 For example, the US Swimming team invested millions in a computational fluid dynamics software to allow swimmers to analyse their stroke angles and minimise water resistance. Today, the team comprises many of the world’s top swimmers. Such facilities often require high capital outlay that can only be provided by governments and, indeed, the inextricable relationship between government funding and competitive sports has thwarted the originally pure intentions of sports. As much as it is a celebration of human physical ability, sports is now being exploited by governments as a political tool. During the 2010 Youth Olympic Games in Singapore, for instance, the Iranian government forced its athlete to withdraw from the taekwondo finals because the Iranian government did not recognise the existence of Israel, the country represented by his opponent. More recently, in the 2016 Rio Olympics, an Egyptian judoka refused to shake the hands of his Israeli opponent for reasons pertaining to his nationality. As seen in these examples, the increasing political influence in sports today has corrupted the noble intentions of sports, and it can contribute to the heightening tensions between countries worldwide. In this respect, the universal appeal of sports has in fact exacerbated its negative influence, with the politically-antagonising actions in competitive sports being witnessed by millions around the world. Therefore, the fact that modern competitive sports are no longer non-political necessarily means that the uniting forces of sports are not as strong as they used to be. Moreover, the competitive nature of sports has bred over-competitiveness and athletes. Far from being the celebration of the physical prowess of the human race that sports used to be, today, professional, competitive athletes are overly fixated on winning and finding a reasonable personal justification for the many hours of training they have endured. Such an overly competitive mentality has given rise to rampant unsportsmanlike behaviour in recent times. For example, French captain Thierry Henry admitted to committing an intentional handball foul during the 2009 World Cup playoff finals that led to the goal that killed Ireland’s chances of qualifying for the World Cup. This excessive fixation on winning has developed an “every man for himself” attitude, with sportsmen willing to do anything to win. 6 Such attitudes mean that sports today is more of a dividing force than one of unity, since athletes will only be concerned with their self-interest, and be less considerate of others. Similarly, the universal appeal of sports means that sporting fans worldwide risk inherit such mentalities, cultivating a global climate of selfishness and over-fixation on personal interests. Clearly, sports helps to perpetuate a culture of selfishness.

Lastly, modern competitive sports does not allow for greater harmony because it exacerbates inequality. This can be attributed to the culture of celebrity athletes in today’s world. The world’s top sporting stars often earn exorbitantly high wages for their contributions in the sporting arena. For example, Cristiano Ronaldo commands a post-tax wage of over US$370,000 a week. Often, sports stars even earn money outside of their sport. For example, Tiger Woods has earned a staggering 100 million dollars just from endorsing Nike products alone. While the intangible social benefits of star athletes can be debated, the fact is that these competitive sports stars do not contribute much tangibly and directly to society, be it in the form of creating employment, educating children or protecting the disadvantaged. Therefore, dedicating such large sums of money to athletes cannot be justified and can be considered an excessive over allocation of society’s scarce resources to them. Such a trend exacerbates social inequality, with huge profits not just concentrated in the hands of giant corporations, but also in the hands of sports stars. This income inequality will only cause greater social unrest, with the disadvantaged and needy receiving fewer resources, and therefore, the celebrity culture of competitive sports will not result in greater integration, but worsen and exarcebate economic  differences.

