The struggle for gender equality is one of the most enduring social movements of our time. Over the past few decades, we have witnessed a vast improvement in the status of women in relation to their male counterparts - a sign that the fight for gender equality has seen significant improvements in oursociety. Yet, the chasm between males and females continues to persist in our society, in many arenas of social life, and this has led some to believe that the gender divide is insurmountable. In my opinion, however, this disparity can be alleviated and the march towards complete gender parity is indeed on a path to eventual success. Those who believe otherwise often cite innate biological differences between males and females, which they deem to be irreconcilable. Proponents of this view argue that women are physically weaker than men, and this means that they are incapable of levelling up to men, especially when it comes to male domains of power, such as the military. Some also argue that women are inherently inferior in terms of leadership capabilities. This is because the general dispositions of women tend to be more docile and meek, and women leaders have been shown to favour consensus-building approaches in their leadership styles. These qualities are said to be incompatible with the workplace and effective leadership, in a workplace environment that fetishises authority and dominance. Thus, the gender divide can be said to be impossible to close, since women are fundamentally different from men.

Yet, this view suffers from a pessimistic and anachronistic conception of the world that does not square with reality. Innate biological differences do not necessarily have considerable impacts on a woman’s ability to function optimally in her professional capacity. A relative lack of physical strength does not empirically impede one’s cognitive faculties and intellectual development, nor does it mean that one would be less able to command the respect and trust of one’s subordinates. It is absurd to claim that the muscularity or physical stature of an individual should limit one’s abilities. Even where physical capability is important, we have witnessed how many women have been able to overcome these barriers to success. The widely revered Serena Williams, for instance, is often lauded as the world’s best tennis player in history, irrespective of her gender. The rise of female participation in traditionally male domains of labour further disproves this view - In Norway and Israel, women constitute nearly half of the military, even in the upper ranks as generals and commanders. This demonstrates that while inherent differences between men and women exist, they are not impossible to overcome and women can nonetheless attain success despite their existence.

Another argument that is often raised is the idea that hostile societal attitudes have ossified to the extent that many individuals in society will never be able to accede to demands for full gender parity. Many argue that religions and cultural traditions often prescribe entrenched conservative beliefs, such as the idea that ‘the male should always be the head of the house’, which means that many segments of civil society will never be accommodating of gender equality, given that it assaults their core systems of belief. From this perspective, the progress of women is subjected to the tyranny of conservative views that will almost never be dismantled; thus, these inhibitions towards full gender parity will continue to persist, and hold back the march towards complete equality.
