From a pragmatist’s viewpoint, closing down all the art museums and galleries would lead to freeing up budget that can be spent on other social issues in need of dire attention. According to the statistics provided by the Ministry ofCulture, Community and Youth (MCCY), the government’s expenditure on the arts from 2012 t0 2014 amount to $274 millions. Although not all of which can be credited to spending on art museums and galleries, it is not entirely farfetched to say it takes up a significant portion of the $274 millions. After all, museums such as the the Singapore Arts Museum (SAM) and the ArtScience Museum at Marina Bay do put up exhibitions rather regularly. These exhibitions involve paying for foreign artists and artworks to be displayed, withno guarantee of covering the costs from ticket sales. Furthermore, tickets to such exhibitions are mostly subsidized by the government to encourage attedance and hence every exhibition is costly, not to mention some exhibitions may be too niche and attract few visitors. The amount spent on all these activities can be quite staggering when once considers the fact that right now Singapore has more than 50 museums and galleries and most are putting up exhibitions every month or two. The belief that such spending is unnecessary is not unfounded as one of Singapore’s recently opened museum, consequences Singapore Pinacotheque de Paris, closed down due to low attendance. Hence,  spendings on art museums may seem like unwise decisions for its lack of returns. In short, curating and maintaining art museums and galleries are costly, and these “splurgings” can besaved if all art museums and galleries were to close down.

On a cultural level, the closing down of all art museums and galleries in Singapore is akin to eroding the cultural and historical aspect of our society.Contrary to popular belief, art museums are not all about modern or abstract art, but can be relevant to society as well. The newly opened National Gallery Singapore (NGS) houses the largest collection of South-East Asian artworks, giving visitors a glimpse into the rich history of not only Singapore but the entire region of South-East Asia. The relatively older Peranakan Museum houses a vast collection of Peranakan paintings and art crafts. These works not only reflect the Peranakan culture that has helped shaped the the modern Singaporean culture but also allows visitor to gain a deeper appreciation for the history and the evolution of the said culture. Furthermore, paintings and artworks ought to be seen in person in order to have a truly authentic experience; browsing paintings from a laptop does not allow room for prolonged and detailed viewing. The only way for us Singaporeans to see these culturally and historically significant artworks is to have them housed inmuseums, and to close down these venues would be denying us the opportunity to learn about our culture in an intimate manner, ultimately perpetuating the notion that Singapore is a “cultural desert”. The closing down of all arts museums and galleries would also discourage local artists in their crafts. Art is more than just a moment of self-indulgence of the artist, but it is also meant to be shared with other people. Russian writer Tolstoy believed that art needs to “evoke one’s feeling” and “transmit these feelings to others” and how can these artworks see daylightif there are no venues to host them. Public exhibitions are essential to an artist’s career, for it is the primary way to receive validation and fame. Famous paintings, such as Picasso’s Les Demoiselles d’Avignon which is often hailed as the symbol of Cubism and Modernism, did not generate discussion until they were put on a public exhibition. Similarly, for Singapore to nurture budding artists, it ought to provide venues to display their works. In fact, NGS is currently holding an exhibition of Singaporeans-only artworks, many of which come from young artists in their early 30s. Hence, closing down art museums and galleries would effectively put local artists out of their career as it will deny them the opportunity to display their works in public.

Lastly, closing down art museums and galleries would be a huge blow to the effort in arts education to students and the general public. According to MCCY,museum attendance has steadily increased from 2 million in 2004 to 8 million in 2014, showing how museums have managed to reach out to more citizens, amongst which students would presumably make up a large proportion as museums such as SAM and NGS have often been made the destinations for school’s Learning Journeys. Arts students are also seen frequenting art museums, seeking for inspirations from the artworks on display. The exhibitions in some museums also explores social issues, as seen from one of SAM’s exhibition on refugees through an art installation of a boat made from used fabrics. These exhibitions and artworks do prompt the visitors to rethink and relook at certain issues, and leave the museum with a deeper understanding of the world around them. Museums and galleries have always been a vehicle for education not just on arts but also the themes and issues they raise. This education does not only apply to people who are interested in arts but should concern the general public as well. Hence, closing down art museums and galleries would be removing one key avenue of educating the public.
