Despite the solutions science and technology provides to the problems that we face, some problems are far more complex due to social and political circumstances that hinder these solutions from being effectively applied tobenefit society. Metaphorically speaking, while science may provide the water with which we may use to fight fires, these efforts remain fruitless if there exist insufficient infrastructure to douse the flames effectively. Social situations suchas poverty may prevent access to medical care, and inequality entails staggering amounts of food wastage in rich nations but starving, malnourished populations in others. The world does not have the  medical resources to treat people, and the agricultural technology to supply sufficient food – yet social circumstances dampen the potential of science and technology. Millions of people are afflictedby HIV/AIDs in African countries, yet when there exist effective anti-retroviral treatments that can allow people to live full, meaningful lives, the prohibitively high costs, fear of social stigma and falsehoods propagated by their leadersprevent people from access to such treatments. Their societies are being hollowed from the inside by a preventable, treatable disease, yet the average lifespan of the Gambians has fallen by 20 years over the past 2 decades. Science and technology alone cannot solve such problems that are deeply entrenched in the workings of these societies. Political and social change needs to occur first, in order to allow technology to brighten the lives of people within such societies.

Other societies face problems that simply cannot be solved by science. War and conflict stemming from clashes in belief and ideology, and the humanpropensity towards using violence as a self-defense mechanism are not issues that a magical pill or new, cutting-edge technology can resolve. Indeed, science can solve the symptoms of such issues. Surveillance, strong military defence forces and advanced weaponry may be able to eliminate threats of terrorism,but they only serve to tackle the symptoms of such problems rather than the root cause. Rifts in society and faultlines of race and class simply cannot be eliminated by science. The roots of inequality – human selfishness, greed and a capitalist economy cannot be eliminated by science and technology. Such things that are core to our humanity and rooted in the functionings of our society are not solved by science. Even as technology has given us abundance in material wealth, the capitalist system makes it such that any increase lands mostly in the hands of the wealthy and powerful. It is no wonder, then, that problems of food wastage and distribution are rampant in our world. To blindly take for granted that our problems will be solved by science, then, would be naïve, or even harmful, because much greater efforts have to be taken by our societies to take steps towards a better world.

However, what may truly be the most dangerous stance to take is the denouncement of science and technology itself. In a political climate where science and technology is easily manipulated by those in power, if science and technology is not relied upon and  utilized, its power to solve our problems will only further be diminished. One need only look to the climate change renouncers in the United States and the budget cuts for the NationalAeronautics and Space Administration (NASA )and the Environmental Protection Agency brought about by the Trump administration to perceive the growing trend of anti-intellectualism in the world today. It is the denial of science that truly endangers humankind’s ability to progress. If the funding and resources for research and development are cut, following this trend, its ability to provide solutions and bring benefit will be decreased further. Furthermore, the uncertainties posed by corporations and lobbyist groups influencing and manipulating scientific research for their benefit pose further threat – research institutions in the United States have manufactured “results” proving the nonexistence of global warming, and corporations in the meat industry only fund research that denies the threat of rearing of livestock to the environment. This erodes the reliability of science in our world. As such, the ability for science and technology to solve our problems is further limited.
