Still, such a view has drawn flak from some academics even though studies have shown that good governance is correlated with strong transparency, accountability and economic growth. There is a fear that having too much transparency may bring more harm than good as it would impede the policy making process. This view is supported by a University of Pennsylvania Law research paper that stated that full disclosure of the policy making process may inadvertently cause the leakage of firms’ trade secrets that were provided to the government. Companies, being fearful of acts that could dent their profits, would then feel less obliged and restrict the quality and quantity of information that is made available to the government. Therefore, with incomplete and insufficient evidence or knowledge to craft policies, the final legislature could end up being a bane to the country. Thus, the argument against transparency being a key criterion for an efficient government may hold true despite being seemingly counter-intuitive.However, some intellectuals contend that the main criterion for good government is to uphold and protect individual rights. Such a government helps to protect our freedom to life, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and the right to vote, inter alia. These are essential features that strengthen civil society development, tolerance and respect for others. They hold that incidents such as the FBI’s harassment of civil rights leaders, the Army’s spying on the anti-war movement in the 1960s, and more recently, in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the passing of the Patriot Act by President Bush and the Republican Congress, have all but severely undermined the citizens’ basic rights and freedoms. The U.S. government greatly increased wiretapping and other forms of surveillance of citizens, often without any evidence of any wrongdoing on their part. Thousands of people were secretly detained for months without any charges against them. Suspected terrorists were denied lawyers and the right to a trial. Some suspects were even sent abroad to other countries so they could be tortured. And 2005 and 2006 revealed the existence of extensive domestic spying programs by the National Security Agency and other institutions that are legally forbidden from doing so –a very disturbing development. Nonetheless, while government policies can sometimes threaten our freedoms, our legislatures and courts are also often the most effective avenues for defending and expanding our rights and liberties –for the general good –based on utilitarianism.In conclusion, it is unfair and misguided to posit that the key criterion for good government is how well the economy is managed. It ignores the fact that accurately assessing a government’s levels of efficiency and competency is both complicated and perplexing. While a well-managed economy may be able to signal the high degree of competency of a government through the fulfilment of citizens’ material well-being, this overly simplistic measure fails to provide a holistic evaluation of the government. Hence, a more superior assessment should also include criteria such as accountability and transparency and to a smaller extent, democratic rights. Indeed, countries are increasingly cognisant of the importance of using a multifaceted approach to measure their political monoliths.