It is impossible to deny that huge leaps of progress have been made in recent years, in large part due to governments recognising the importance of engaging both genders equally, to bolster lacklustre economies. In the light of many developed countries, such as Japan, that have an increasingly ageing population, the importance of engaging every member of the population of working age has never been as prevalent as today. By promoting gender equality in the form of equal pay or less sexism in the workplace, governments can encourage more women to join the workforce, increasing the total working population, which helps bolster the economy. For example, one need only look at Japan which has long been a male-dominated society, where women were often expected to stay home and look after the household while men worked to support the family. However, just last year, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe passed policies that mandated educational workshops in Japanese offices to eradicate sexism and harassment, which is characteristic of many of the men from the older generation. This was part of his Abenomics push to bolster the Japanese economy that has been suffering blows from its increasingly elderly population and low birth rate. While the success of his plan has yet to be seen, this shows that governments across the world have indeed realised the importance of gender equality, which has led to progress in recent years.  The progress in gender equality is also in no small part due to the societal awakening brought about by social media. Many feminist movements are born in Western countries, perhaps due to more liberal perspectives. These movements may never have moved beyond their birthplaces if not for the speed and wide reach of social media. For example, the #HeForShe campaign spearheaded by outspoken feminist, Emma Watson, would not have the influence and awareness it did, if not for social media. There have been intense social media campaigns to raise awareness, by engaging prominent male actors, such as Ben Whishaw to post using the hashtag to show their support. The platform of social media also allowed the common man or woman to engage in the movement and show their support. This allowed the message of gender equality to spread far and wide, raising awareness of its importance among both members of society and their leaders. This has helped to drive progress in recent years as well. However, it is evident that while progress has been made, there is still much left to be done. In apparent mockery of the feminist movement, there was the uprising of the Meninist movement that pushed their misogynistic views on various social media platforms such as Reddit. Rape threats to outspoken feminists are commonplace and authorities do not pursue these threats. There are a few reasons why I believe that there is still much to be done.

Firstly, the older generation often hold very conservative views about their cultures and the role of women in society. For example, many religious fundamentalists of Islam still believe that the female has no place in anywhere but the home and hearth. The Taliban did not allow girls to go to school and enacted harsh laws that restricted the freedoms of women. Even the Western world is not free from such problems. After the 2016 Presidential election, it was found that many of the 42% of women who voted for Trump, were from the older generation who believed that a return to more traditional values, was more decidedly “American”. These conservative views have prevented a lot of future progress as the older generation still occupy positions of power and can enforce their view on society through their policies, that may even breed new generations of conservative views. The older generation also are large in numbers and thus have larger voting power. The politicians who only care about re-election will pander to such viewpoints as it benefits them. Therefore, such conservative values continue to hinder a lot of progress. 

Secondly, there is a mindset within society that women are less capable than men. This is a belief that has been reinforced through gender stereotypes that boys are traditionally better at thinking subjects, such as Mathematics and by a patriarchal society where having women in parliament or on a director’s chair is a victory to be celebrated rather than just the norm. In Saudi Arabia, women are not allowed to drive by themselves and often require someone to approve any major decisions they make or even a visit to the hospital. Is the woman really that incapable of making her own informed decisions? It does not help that often these women have been socialised to believe that it is normal and expected to be subservient to their fathers or spouses. A household survey carried out in India showed that 52% of Indian women felt that it was normal if their husbands beat them for going out without his prior approval. This mindset that women are not capable is one that is also holding back progress in gender equality and often is the root of a lot of gender equality.
