Prima facie, it would appear as though religion only results in bigotry and prejudice, where pious believers congregate and pit themselves against other who do not share the same zealous faith. This may be especially so for the case of religious fundamentalist whose entire sense of self and purpose for existence revolve around subservience to their deity. The crisis in the Middle East is a glaring example of how seemingly irreconcilable differences in religious beliefs have led to widespread sectarian violence and rancour. The Islamic State, or more commonly referred to as ISIS, is an extreme case of how religion not only divides but instigates people to act on their hatred against non-believers, as adduced by the indiscriminate genocide of other religious minorities by the religious terrorists who use scripture in an unprecedented manner to justify their barbaric murders in the name of establishing a Muslim caliphate and view themselves  as the harbinger of the imminent Judgement Day. While religion indeed seems to be the reason for the fragmentation in the Middle East, to place the blame of this division on religion would be to neglect the plethora of other factors that have contributed to this state of desolation. For this given example, it should be acknowledged that the issue is multi-factorial and the divide also encompasses other social and political complexities. Much of the discord can also be attributed to how the Sunni majority in Syria has long been ruled by the oppressive Shite minority, which has refused to large swathes of the population freedom of religious expression and politic emancipation. Under the Assad regime, innocent civilians have been exposed to chemical attack by the militia and it is more so the denial of political rights and excess to basic welfare that has culminated in the morbid retaliation by the disenfranchised factions, leading to the misconception that conflict and division is ostensibly religion in nature.

Furthermore, this is a largely isolated case that shows the extremes of religious division. Depending on how religious differences in a society are managed, religion could conversely bring about cohesion and stability. When accompanied by amiable and open dialogue, and the display of a willingness to compromise and respect those of all religions, religious differences can be tolerated to create a community of acceptance. While this may sound idealistic, it has been in fact realized in Lebanon with the unique form of confessionalism it practices in its government structure, where the President is always a Maronite Christian, the Prime Minister a Sunni and the Head of Defence a Druze. Although the country still has much progress to make, the fair representation of the various religions in its government ensures that the rights of each religion are vehemently safeguarded, therefore averting schismatic fall-out or a nation-state conflict and showing that instead of dividing, religion, when moderated by temperance and tolerance, can in fact create a framework of greater unity in spite of the inherent differences. In addition, religion can be a force to strengthen relationships and cement diplomatic ties at the international level. The shared Muslim religion across the countries situated in close proximity to the Persian Gulf has untied the region and facilitated cross-border business transactions, leading to one of the most effective and well-coordinated economic cooperation - the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). While the alliance is mostly motivated by prospects of economic gains, due to the shared religious values and principles in business, bring about great prosperity of the partnering nations. Bahrain serves as the regional banking centre and follows strict Sharia Law. Since all the countries similarly observe the same rules, it has allowed researchers and scholars to obtain the necessary funds to finance their projects and business endeavours in these countries. What is even more remarkable is that Bahrain is Shiite dominated, while all other member-nations of the GCC comprise a Sunni majority. This astounding success serves as evidence that religion does in fact have a unifying effect in the modern world.

At the individual level, religion has a great power in linking believers across the world in fellowship and provides a sense of belonging to a larger entity. With nearly 1.3 billion Muslims worldwide, a million Catholics and Christians, and half a million more Buddhists and Hindus each, religion does indeed have of the ability to create an ineffable sense of brotherhood and connection. In this fast paced world of rapid changes where people are growing ever tired of sprinting on the hedonic treadmill and in the context of crass materialism and avarice perpetuated by the media, religion imparts on its followers the lessons of altruism and exhorts them to care for the disadvantaged and marginalized segments of society, where otherwise they could lose themselves in the selfish culture of consumerism. The values of love, kindness and benevolence are embodied in the Christian commandment “love thy neighbour as thyself”, the Jewish Law of “heal the world”, and similarly in the Muslim injunction “look to charity as something you must do every day that the sun rises”. Given these invaluable teachings common across all religions and how religion offers opportunity for self-reflection in an atmosphere of sincere humility, accompanied by spiritual enlightenment and self-actualization, many individuals have come forward to contribute to society to create a more inclusive environment where all can be united despite the different socio-economic backgrounds. Such is displayed by the commendable service initiatives by faith based charity organisations such as HOPE Worldwide, which encourage volunteerism and offers aid to all regardless of race, class, creed or religion.
