As United Nations Peacekeepers of various foreign countries watched silently the systematic massacre of ethnic Bosnian Muslims by ethnic Serbs in a devastating campaign of ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, the world dealt with the bigger question of the efficacy and justifiability of foreign intervention. Intervention, ostensibly a relic of colonial practices and a historic "white saviour complex" continues to be used in a myriad of ways today - political, military, economic - yet opinions on its justifiability remain empirically polarised with competing notions of sovereignty and humanitarian obligations. I reject the preposterous postulation that one country's intervention in another's affairs is justifiable, on the grounds that such forms of intervention largely exacerbate the very problems they seek to ameliorate, worsening them both in the short and long term. To the credit of detractors, however, it must be conceded that humanitarian intervention, only when requested for, in times of crisis can be justified as it can augment the efforts of local governments in protecting their people. Such a notion balances sovereignty with the need to best protect the interests of the people that domestic governments serve, under Rosseau's Social Contract by uniting members of the international community in a gesture of support by prioritising the protection of the inalienable human right to life over political differences. Simultaneously, other countries, by intervening with humanitarian personnel, aid packages and the relevant expertise, fulfill their obligations under the Responsibility to Protect framework that offers customary authority to other countries to intervene on behalf of a local government when the latter does not have the means to protect its people. This was seen in the case of the Haiti earthquake when the US provided humanitarian intervention, in Aceh following the 2004 tsunami, Japan following the Fukushima disaster, inter alia. Government aid agencies, coupled with NGO efforts, raised collateral and provided the personnel required to extract and treat victims of calamities far more efficiently than any lone government would have been able to, saving countless lives and simultaneously fulfilling obligations to the international community. Granted, these rescue efforts were in part maligned by accusations of corruption, among others, such as that of the American wing of World Vision International that was accused of embezzling one million US dollars due to improper oversight by the intervening government. However, to conclude that such instances render intervention unjustifiable is loose logic at best; the vast majority of humanitarian intervention efforts have augmented local government efforts and saved lives in crucial, dire times of crises and helped governments fulfill their obligations both to the people and the international community. They can thus be justified. However, there can be little justification for intervention beyond the humanitarian paradigm. Military intervention, typically targeted at deposing dictatorial authorities and championing certain rights or liberties further exacerbates the situation and denies civilians the very rights these efforts aim to champion. In principle, unauthorised intervention is a gross violation of sovereignty, the respect for the authority of other governments that preserves the fabric of international stability. In practice, it protracts violence, paves the path for further long-term instability and carries potential to develop unintended consequences with cataclysmic consequences for the nations involved. Fundamentally, foreign intervention in a conflict beyond one's own borders is unjustifiable as it may distort a state level conflict into a larger war of big powers. The involvement of USA and the Soviets in Vietnam protracted a previously milder regional conflict, and similarly the involvement of Lebanon (Hezbollah), Saudi Arabia, Kurdistan among others aforementioned complicated the Syrian Civil War, making the deposition of autocratic Assad an even greater impossibility today. Even if foreign intervention succeeds in removing despots, the lack of foreign authority or even political will paves the path for a power vacuum that may lead to long-term instability. 