At the global level, a key impediment to international efforts in saving the environment is the long-standing rift between developed and developing countries over which side should bear the greater responsibility to do so. On one hand, developing nations point to the fact that industrialized countries such as the USA, Britain and France should bear the bulk of the responsibility as they were the ones who contributed significantly to the accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere for a long period of time during the Industrial Revolution of the 18th and 19th centuries. On the other hand, the developed world counter-argues that developing countries such as China, Brazil and India need to bear much responsibility as well because they are the ones currently polluting the environment at a much faster rate due to their rapid industrial development. China, for instance, has overtaken the US as the world’s largest polluter since 2008. While these competing interests of economic development and environmental conservation often come to a head, the truth is that behind the scenes, both developed and developing countries have long come to realize the shared responsibility in saving the planet. A case in point would be China which is discovering that decades of long neglect and polluting of the environment is beginning to endanger its future economic growth. In light of this, China led the world in 2017 with a $54.4bn investment in clean technology – about 40% higher than third-placed America. It has also implemented a cap-and-trade system which will move China towards achieving its Copenhagen commitment to reduce carbon emissions relative to economic growth by 40-45% below 2005 levels by 2020. Certainly, these measures demonstrate the optimistic trend that the gulf separating countries in this respect is narrowing, which augurs well for the internationalized fight against environmental degradation. 

Another oft-cited reason for why it has been so difficult to save the environment is the purported trade-off between environmental conservation and economic growth. The argument goes that it is impossible to expect the environment to be protected when many countries require increasing amounts of energy to meet the infinite needs of a growing population and as their economies industrialize. In order to save the environment, it is often claimed that there is a need to phase out economically-efficient but environmentally-unfriendly equipment such as coal-powered plants; to increase the energy efficiency of machines; and to treat harmful industrial waste – all of which would entail higher costs of production and are steps that companies and countries have repeatedly demonstrated that they are loath to undertake. Thankfully, this popular but misleading notion that greater environmental protection can only come about by reduced industrial activity and slower economic growth is steadily being challenged by leading voices in this area. People are beginning to recognize that it is unrealistic and ineffective to expect corporations to act against their vested economic interests, and that economic growth can in actuality complement conservation efforts. The bestselling author Bjorn Lomborg penned a powerful article in Newsweek, in which he persuasively argues that helping people to emerge from poverty and promoting economic growth are among the best things we can do for the environment. He makes the persuasive case that it is only by allowing and facilitating disadvantaged communities and countries to get richer that would enable them to satisfy immediate needs – following which can they then afford to start caring about the environment. The economic history of developed nations such as those on the European continent also suggests that when living standards go up, people and societies can afford to reduce their pollution, stop cutting down forests, and stop dying from dirty air and contaminated water. Even in developing nations, good governance and choice policies are proven to be effective in promoting sustainable economic development. In Indonesia, ex-President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s developmental policy was characterised as being ‘pro-poor, pro-job creation, pro-growth and pro-environment’. This strategy heralded a period of strong economic growth amounting to 5.9% annually, even as Indonesia’s greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 26%. This suggests that technocrats have moved away from believing that economic development and environmental conservation are mutually exclusive. Hopefully, this shift in thinking would gradually remove the bugbear that saving the environment involves huge economic sacrifices, and move us towards implementing policies that are able to accommodate both aspects crucial for our sustainable growth and well-being.

In a similar vein, a change in mindsets concerning green technology is also underway which bodes well for the future of environmental preservation. Until recently, much faith has been placed in costly climate-change solutions such as solar panels, biofuels and carbon capture technology. Yet, these examples of green technology have not proven to be the panacea that they are touted to be. As long as wind turbines and solar panels remain more expensive than fossil fuels while working only intermittently, they will never be the solution to our energy woes. As of 2016, Germany, the world’s largest per capita consumer of solar energy, produces just 6.6% percent of its energy. And to achieve this number one status, the country has invested $130 billion in return for $12 billion worth of energy. The net reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by the end of the century? Just 23 hours. Similarly, biofuel production is now consuming 40 percent of the US corn harvest, even though it supplies only 4 percent of the transport fuel used in America. Around the world, the turn to biofuel crops is resulting in higher food prices – and hence increased hunger. It is estimated that if the European Union were to derive 10 percent of their transport fuels from biofuels, the price of food could increase astronomically by 76% or deprive an additional 600 million people of food. Indeed, the prevalent belief in green technology to save our earth has proven disappointing and constitutes yet another reason for explaining why it has been so difficult to save the environment. But this should not lead us to despair as there is now a growing consensus that we should divert some of the attention and resources on green initiatives to producing solutions for more obvious and needy problems, which would hopefully generate positive knock-on effects for the environment. World Wide Fund for Nature in Australia, Fiji and New Zealand has introduced blockchain technology to track the migration of tuna, allowing scientific researchers an insight into global fishing, vessel traffic, and the potential effects of overfishing. The World Research Institute has also incorporated an open-source online forest monitoring and alert system which depends on data contribution from users on the ground to investigate forest health and deter illegal logging. Poco a poco, these small steps which are dependent on mass collaboration and effort have had a transformative effect on the way in which we tackle the effect of anthropogenic activities on the environment.  





