Next, the unequivocal support of the majority rule could disrupt the delicate fabric of international relations, resulting in complications and detriments for citizens nationwide. Take the case of the Russian annexation of Crimea, sovereign Ukrainian territory, simply because (as Russia puts it) 96% of Crimeans voted in favour of Russian unification in a national referendum. This unilateral action failed to consider that perhaps the argument of protecting majority interests cannot be used to justify the violation of agreements on the international level and infringe on border protocol. This annexation, clearly 'out-of-order', inspired the West to impose crippling sanctions on Russia, even on basic necessities like food, ultimately debilitating the Russian economy and causing great hostility between international superpowers, seen in Obama and Putin's bickering in the General Assembly. This led to unwarranted consequences not only for the citizens of Russia, but also those of other countries; gridlocks in the Security Council ostensibly led to the aggravation of the Syrian Civil war, owing to inaction by the international community. Blindly following the majority has the potential to antagonise members of the international community and hurt uninvolved parties. Any good government would thus not stand for such acts, in accordance with the "Responsibility to Protect" (R2P). Lastly, the pursuit of majority-favouring policies may be detrimental to the society in the long run as they do not solve the problems faced by the majority at their roots. Policies of affirmative action, such as the New Economic Policy in Malaysia, under the Bumiputera ('sons of the soil') umbrella, has received much criticism for some say it only exacerbates the dire problem of economic growth. This is because it secures the interest of an ethnic majority, by paying the cost of future growth borne by all. Similarly, analysts in the United States have concluded that the affirmative action policies of the past decades in the field of education, such as lowering the barriers for women to get into colleges, have failed because the problem has simply reversed itself in the present day. Today, it is men who suffer from a disappointing 46% admission rate (compared to the 54% for women), suggesting that the problem continues to exist, if not exacerbated, just with a different demographic. Such policies that favour a majority laggard group are not only discriminatory and counterproductive to larger objectives of a nation, but also ineffective as they do little but change the demographic of the victims of unequal opportunity. By no metric can such policies symbolise good governance. In conclusion, while putting the interests of the majority first is acceptable in principle, it paves the way for harmful political decisions that hurt the interests of all. A "good government" should not resort to blindly adopting such measures, but rather should implement checks and balances to prevent the tyranny of the majority constitutionally, committing to protecting human rights and act in accordance with international law. Only then can a government that protects the interests of the majority over those of the minority be considered a "good government". 