Sport unites people by allowing them to see past racial lines through their shared passions and desires. Sport allows individuals from different racial backgrounds but who support the same team to bond over a shared interest and common passion. This encourages them to look past whatever prejudices they may bear towards their counterparts to the extent where it can displace years of disdain and mistrust. This was most notably seen after the events of the 1995 Rugby World Cup in South Africa, where decades of violence, apartheid and mutual distrust which had characterised the relationship between the white Afrikaners and the black indigenous Africans gave way to greater acceptance and understanding as the country united in support of the nation’s national rugby team known as the Springboks. This led to unprecedented levels of dialogue and consensus building between the two racially segregated political factions. The shared desire for the success of their sports team allowed the citizens of South Africa to look past the long-seated hatred between their two racial groups and see each other as human beings by giving them a common interest that the whole country could bond over despite their tumultuous past. Similarly, the Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality is a non-profit organisation which uses sport to empower more than 30,000 students and staff to initiate and discuss America’s complex racial relations and the concept of inclusivity within their teams. It has successfully managed to promote cohesiveness between players of different races. Thus, sport does have the powerful ability to unify even the most racially divided people, cutting through stereotypes and preconceived notions keeping different racial groups apart and even breaking down barriers of racial tension and allowing these groups to come together as one people through their love of sport. 

Sport also has the ability to unite individuals by blurring geographical boundaries and reducing distance and bringing people together based on their love of sport. The international nature of sport makes it an effective channel through which individuals can bond over their common love for sport even to the extent of bringing together individuals from countries with a history of animosity with one another in the spirit of sport. This was witnessed during the 23rd Winter Olympic Games in 2018 where both North and South Koreans marched together at the opening ceremony, and even entered a combined women’s ice hockey team to participate at the games. The unification of the two Koreas through sport at the winter games despite their long history of war and tension and their ever-present geographical divide along the 38th parallel, shows the possibility that sport has to tear down walls and bring together people based on the spirit and love of sports. Similarly, tennis doubles players Aisam-Ul-Haq from Pakistan and Rohan Bopanna from India burst onto the world stage in 2010 with their unconventional pairing, and showed the world that sport can help surmount political divides. Cases like this demonstrate the unique place sport holds in the world due to its ability to allow nations to put aside their disagreements and come together for a common interest, further emphasising why sports unites to a much greater extent than it divides.

However, when passion for sport is taken too far, it can lead to an excessive and unhealthy rivalry amongst athletes and their fans which could have a divisive effect on the community instead. When passion is taken to extremes and transforms into unwarranted hatred and violence amongst rival fans and players, this can lead to an incredibly divisive and unstable atmosphere that could lead to hostility and even violence. This was unfortunately seen during the 2016 European Championships in France where rival fans took their sporting rivalries too far and engaged in violent brawls with opposing fans throughout the tournament leading to many being thrown behind bars and even more ending up in hospitals due to the mass violence and chaos that these confrontations caused. Instead of being a time for fans to come together over the spectacle that was supposed to be Euro 2016, the hyper-intensified passions and rivalries of these fans caused the tournament to be marred by violence and resulted in divisive sentiments amongst the different countries and their supporters, who pushed the blame to one another for the outbreak of the violence. Thus, when taken to excess, passion and rivalry in sport can transform into mass hysteria and violence, leading to the division of sporting communities as they begin to clash over their loyalties and overzealously express their support through violence.