Technological developments have a main and original purpose, to improve the lives and welfare of mankind. When it loses its purpose however, it has the potential to become exploitative instead, hence such developments would have to be regulated by the government or relevant bodies of authority, to prevent a loss of welfare for those involved. The lucrative nature of the technological industry is a tempting one, and may prompt firms to make use of technology to increase their profits, sometimes at the expense of the welfare of the good’s consumers or even producers. Commercial surrogacy is a prime example of this. This multi-million dollar industry, especially rampant in countries like India or Thailand, makes use of in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) and poor surrogate mothers to produce babies for rich couples who are unable or unwilling to conceive themselves. These surrogate mothers are often illiterate and unaware about the health risks of renting out their wombs and they are exploited by the firms in the industry as they receive little compensation for their services, despite having to bear all the risks. In the process, babies born out of this surrogacy are also treated as commodities which may be abandoned if born with defects, raising severe questions about the sanctity of human life and other ethical issues. While the development of IVF has enabled many infertile couples to have children the unregulated use of it created exploitative industries such as commercial surrogacy, hence regulations are needed to protect the welfare of those involved and to ensure that the technology serves a good and useful purpose.

Regulations, particularly those imposed by the government, are essential because they provide clear boundaries of right and wrong, which is especially important in the world of technology, where new breakthroughs and applications are developed so quickly. Regulations need to be implemented to ensure that the uses and developments of the technology are safe and beneficial, instead of harmful, for the general public and the common men. Take the case of military drones in the US for example. While they are an efficient way to carry out surveillance and to kill, if necessary, there is also a danger that soldiers will become desensitised to enemy killings, since they are so far removed from the act and its aftereffects. This could lead to increased danger for innocent civilians, such as those who were killed in the drone strikes carried out at Syria and Afghanistan. It is precisely the lax regulation by the US government regarding the use of drones that has led to many questions about the boundaries or lack thereof this drone usage should be subjected to. The need for regulations is alsohighlighted in the production and sale of genetically modified food, which on its own is a technological development that offers a solution to eradicating poverty and hunger in the world. In reality however, the farmers in charge of this food production are charged excessively for their seeds by firms like Monsanto. These firms create and sell seeds that promise high yield and are more weatherresistant, but which can only be used for a single year. Farmers are thus forced to keep purchasing new seeds that would negatively affect their welfare. Regulations should therefore be imposed strictly to protect the welfare of all mankind against these potentially harmful technological developments and practices, as well as to ensure that the technology is used for good.

On the other hand, while regulations are definitely necessary in exploitative technological developments, overly strict regulations might not be able to better protect those who are exploited. In fact, they may end up exacerbating the problem and making it worse, if governmental regulations force these harmful activities and practices to go underground, away from the radar of the government. Problems might have been resolved on the surface but in reality, these regulations could lead to an even greater exploitation of those involved. In the case of commercial surrogacy, India is currently implementing a blanket ban over these practices but this is unlikely to protect the welfare of surrogate mothers, who may be treated even more unfairly now that the industry is illegal. It would thus be harder for the government to track these industries and to protect the surrogate mothers if such strict regulations were imposed. The same also goes for stem cell therapy, which at the moment is illegal in the United States as well as many countries but still continues to thrive due to its promise of cures to diseases such as diabetes, cancer and heart disease. The clinics use stem cell technology on desperate patients with incurable diseases but this could cause patients to develop negative side effects like tumours, hence severely harming their welfare. Despite legislative measures put in place to prevent such practices, these clinics still exist and conduct business through illegal means, with patients travelling to other less-regulated countries for the treatment. This not only shows the futility of some legislative regulations but also shows that if implemented too strictly, it will just be even more difficult for the government to protect the welfare of the population. 
