Pacifists would claim that in times of economic hardship, it is unacceptable for governments to spend on arms and armed forces. This is a valid and logical stance since it is apparent that finite resources available should be used to ameliorate economic hardship. After all, it is the government’s duty to guarantee a quality standard of living for its people. Moreover, in the relatively peaceful world we live in today where conflicts are merely reduced to skirmishes, excessive expenditure on arms seems moreirrelevant than ever. The government should therefore channel its funds and resources to invigorate the economy through a slew of financial reforms and market intervention. Ultimately, this would ensure that the state remains accountable to the electorate that had put them into power in the first place. Conversely, spending on arms and the armed forces in the advent of economic hardship would further compound the financial crisis, and several countries bear testimony to such an oversight. The Soviet Union experienced a series of famines and the depreciation of the ruble in the 1970s and 1980s. Then, Soviet citizens languished in the purgatory of economic hardship and struggled to obtain basic necessities, even more so when exorbitant price tags were placed on them in black markets.  Despite the glaring problems, the Soviet government continued to fund military programmes that developed the Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles and nuclear stockpile, and mired itself in the cash-burning arms race, even in space, to combat the US threat in the Cold War climate. Ultimately, it trapped the Soviet government in a vicious cycle of endless expenditure on arms that it could not step down from. As a result, this decision cost millions of lives and led to resistance against the regime which ultimately collapsed in 1991. Today, North Korea treads on the same unfortunate footsteps by pouring funds into nuclear development while its citizens are reduced to eating grass and tree barks. Evidently, economic concerns far outweigh the need to spend on arms and armed forces because it compounds economic woes and blatantly disregards the livelihood of its citizens and even their sanctity of lives. This moral hazard therefore renders expenditure on arms and armed forces unacceptable during economic crisis.

However, in the face of Machiavellian realpolitik today, the security of a nation must be guaranteed at all cost because it is the utmost priority to remain capable of defence so as to survive. Hence, economic hardship is merely a small problem that pales in comparison in the grand scheme of things. Ancient historian and war strategist Thucydides presciently warned centuries ago that “the strong do what they can, the weak suffer what they must”. This quote epitomises the politics of survival in this cut-throat world. The ability to safeguard sovereignty is the basis of all progress in a country, hence to not spend on arms and armed forces at all times would be tantamount to removing the cornerstone of progress and prosperity. If the country does not even exist, what economic hardship will there be to speak of? This urgent need and justification for military expenditure is further augmented in small states like Singapore and Kuwait. In the nascent years of independence, Singapore mired in financial concerns as she lost her hinterland for exports. Yet even in the crisis ravaged era and region where all hopes of prosperity remained bleak, she set aside a significant amount of budget to develop a formidable armed force, the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF). For a country whose population was barely one percent of the US population, it seemed preposterous to splurge on the SAF. However, such dedication to financing a reliable armed force havepaid off as the SAF delivered 50 years of stability and ensured that Singapore retained her sovereignty despite being surrounded by much larger and more hostile neighbours. Conversely, Kuwait was invaded by Iraq in 1990 due to her contrasting focus on eradicating economic problems. Expenditure on arms and armed forces therefore greatly outweigh economic concerns because it is perhaps the only way to safely guarantee survival in a volatile world today. It would also be parochial to assume that economic hardship and the need to spend on arms and armed forces diametrically oppose each other. In fact, such expenditure can invigorate the economy and resolve the issue of economic hardship, therefore effectively killing two birds with one stone. It could beargued that such expenditure is justified as it turns a crisis into an opportunity. Spending on arms and armed forces can create employment opportunities, developing arms can demonstrate the ability to secure peace and therefore earn the trust of military alliances for more funds.

First, by developing the military, the workforce is mobilised for construction and conscription. In somecases, the development of arms can even invigorate downstream industries where a need for their basic materials fuels the supply and demand chain. A case in point would be Djibouti’s construction of the naval base and naval force with the aid of Chinese military contractors. Hundreds and thousands of locals found themselves a source of stable income through the construction of the port and naval base, and country was actively mobilised in its energy and raw material sector to facilitate the construction, and as such, breathed life into the Djibouti economy that once mired in poverty. Second, military exports serve as a source of direct revenue. During the Second World War when the American economy was still recovering from the debilitating aftermath of the Great Depression, the United States invested extensively in its military sector and as a result, armoured vehicles, warships and light arms like M16 rifles were developed by the likes of Lockheed Martin and exported as revenue. This served as a cash cow to lift the U.S. out of the remnants of the Great Depression and prop the U.S. up as a world leader in economics after the war.
