It must first be conceded that the most typical idea of fashion—haute couture— does not have much real significance other than aesthetic beauty at times because of its high cost and lack of functionality. How many can afford the exorbitantly-priced floor-length dresses with plunging necklines or the dégradé pleated tulle gowns hot off the runway from the House of Dior’s latest Spring/Summer collection? Better yet, how many would want (or dare) to clad themselves in quirkily–cut tops and uncomfortably tight wrap skirts even if they were produced by Italy’s top designers? These types of fashion are highly impractical and unaffordable, especially for the middle-class and lower-income class of the population, who would rather go to work in comfortable, practicalclothing rather than stand out like a sore thumb while suffocating from the discomfort simultaneously. Paired with uncomfortable climate conditions such as the intense humidity and heat in Singapore, such garments are all the more out of the question. In this sense, this ‘haute couture’ type of fashion serves no real value as it is both impractical and expensive, and therefore not applicable to a majority of society.

On deeper analysis, it should also be acknowledged as a fact that fashion fosters a sense of consumerism, resulting in a waste of resources. Fashionistas, both the elite and mainstream alike, are constantly hopping from trend to trend and dressing according to the latest fads in order to seem ‘cool’ and ‘trendy’, a form of flaunting of their supposed social status. These ephemeral, fleeting trends often result in a massive wastage of clothing and resources. Studies have revealed that several million tonnes of relatively new,functional clothing are discarded or donated (more of the former than the latter) every year. It does not help that popular fashion labels are feeding this fashion frenzy in an attempt to keep their clothes lines fresh and entice people to purchase more—H&M introduces hundreds of new outfits every week, promptly disposing of older designs. This throw-away culture perpetuated by society and firms not only erodes the valued principles of prudency and thriftiness, but also promotes materialism and places a strain on resources like cotton which could have been devoted to other industries which directly improve society’s welfare. Hence, seeing as how fashion encourages consumerism and wastes resources, both detrimental for society, fashion may once again appear to lack real purpose. However, to simply write off fashion as useless based on the above arguments would be a benighted oversight of the benefits fashion brings to society, in both tangible and intangible aspects. To begin with, fashion is a powerful instrument in making statements that express certain causes or beliefs, especially when the appropriate attire is selected. People, first and foremost, perceive others to be of a certain personality or the like based on their clothes, as supported by countlessresearch. Fashion is expression on the individual level and collective level. In the social arena, large groups of people often garb themselves in the same collective attire to make a stand for particular social causes they believe in. Take for instance the Pink Dot Movement in Singapore, where thousands gather en masse in pink-coloured clothing to show their support for the LGBT community and ensure that these individuals do not feel left out or socially ostracised in a relatively more conservative society. This social statement is one of such great impact that even tourist participate in it to express their support as a collective body. With meaningful social statements like these made possible through fashion, how could one possibly  argue that it serves no real value? 

In a more tangible aspect, the fashion industry provides employment to millions across the globe, lifting many out of poverty. It is no head-turning fact that the fashion industry is a multi-billion-dollar industry, what with countless designer brands and labels as well as multi-national retail chains around the world today.Italy, home to renowned brands like Dolce & Gabbana, has a fashion industry worth 83.6 billion Euros. Many of these major fashion labels often require massive amount of manpower due to the sheer amount of clothing churned out by mass production every year. Less developed countries also benefit as some of the work is outsourced to them, allowing numerous individuals to be lifted out of unemployment as these jobs typically only require low skill levels. This directly impacts large numbers of people globally who have benefitted from the employment opportunities provided by the fashion industry and now have higher standards of living. Moreover, fashion has also taken up the mantle in protecting the dying breed of artisans by providing them with jobs.Designers travel to places like South Africa to employ the locals there to create intricate handmade crafts and to South Asia to tap on the centuries-old techniques in hand–dyed fabric. The employment provided not only allows these minority artisans to put food on table, but also brings the beauty of their technique and craft to an international stage, where many more will be able to value and appreciate their culture and skills, giving new meaning to their craft.
