For the French writer Marcel Proust, the elixir of memory might have been a petite madeleine*, but that wouldn’t work on British-bred me. What I needed was a can of Heinz cream of mushroom soup and a packet of Sainsbury’s cheese and onion crisps. As I gathered these and other long-neglected childhood foodstuffs from the supermarket shelves, I thought surely one sniff, one taste would be enough to take me right back. That’s the stuff of nostalgia. We are sometimes surprised to discover the impact of old familiar things on our moods and emotions. The whiff of crackers from our childhood times can make us inexplicably misty-eyed with a longing that can also extend to places. A visit to a previously unknown, old family street corner or even an old cemetery can make us giddy or melancholic; walking along the sidewalk, we feel the dent of earlier footsteps, of histories and memories infused with our senses. Even if the memories provoked by smell and sight are not more vivid or specific, they are more emotional and evocative. There is therefore a difference between the statements ‘That’s exactly how I remember it’ and ‘That’s exactly as it was’. Nostalgia thus goes beyond the dry recollection of historical details and retrieves the emotional essence of what has happened.

Today, we see how nostalgia interacts with events that governments find important. History, the interplay of happenings that helps us interpret events, allows for social and national consciousness necessary to resurrect flailing loyalties and perpetuate their narratives. Nation states hence need the ‘reality’ that history brings to legitimise their existence. Nostalgia, however is the sweet savouring found in our collective past – like bridges, monuments, open fields, shops or toys that bring us together, and enables our sweet memories where we once laughed, cried and more importantly, lived. A wise politician realises the need to marry the ‘facts’ of what we remember with the intimate and the familiar. Like it or not, nostalgia attends to us. It recognises the intense meanings we attach to home, childhood, family, ancestry and place. It breathes into our farewells and returns and soothes us in the weathering of our continuity and change, and our inevitable losses. After all, nostalgia is really a manifestation of our all-too-human predilection for longing – more specifically, our longing for connection. Food therefore often forms a powerful part of the emotional narrative of our lives which is, in many ways, more important than the historical one. Immigrants will often adopt the language of their host nation, and even start thinking in it, but they will not give up the food traditions of the old country. This is precisely what nostalgia does as it preserves a link of where they came from, in order to keep a clear sense of who they still are. It is also possible that we carry a sense of memories of people and places we may not have known directly in our own lives. Photographs in an old album, even of strangers, evoke a familiar longing that compels me to look and look, and even as we inexplicably pine for the voices and stories behind every picture that we know we may never have a chance to hear, we revel in the imaginations they provoke – a sensation that is as painful as it is pleasurable. That is why many of us now derive pleasure in popular forms of nostalgia, actively seeking out films, music, monuments and literature that allow us to swim in its waters; of course some of us work very hard to dry ourselves off and break free from what we see as crass and backward-looking sentimentality but today, filmmakers, retirees and even students have flocked to the altar of nostalgia, breathing, gawking and tasting every film, food and story offered by the subjects of their inner need to know their past.

Naturally, nostalgia has its critics. After all, nostalgia can enable us to see only the sunshine. Often, the recollections are borne from beautiful vintage photographs and wonderful fluffy memories where its dream-like state acts likes a narcotic, and we forget the need for the mundane and the constancy that it brings. At the same time, as the Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard puts it, nostalgia also gently warps the picture we have of the past. It is easier to remember the bits of history where the hero won. It iseasier to think about beautiful dances and balls, and the sumptuous clothing that rich people wore, and ignore the social injustices and extreme conditions affecting the rest of the population. My father’s love for all quaint British habits and architecture ignored the fact that a lot of that was built on the backs of people living in poverty and bondage. Often nostalgia excuses the sad historical detail that is often told by the winner of the day – sweet but sometimes hardly objective. For sentimental old fools, nostalgia makes it easy to get lost in that achingly beautiful sadness. I would often, as a child, be practically paralysed with the thought of some beautiful thing I had experienced, or even some sad thing I had experienced. But living in that aching sadness means that you always feel that way – and it is hard to be that emotional all the time. Hence, living in nostalgia can be a source of emotional turmoil and a catalyst for depression because our longings, anchored in the past assumes that we havenothing left to live for. Nostalgia often leaves us harking for a past that was painful as it was beautiful. In fact, it is downright exhausting.
