Even though the modern era has seen fewer major skirmishes on the level of the world wars, conflicts about in our ever-divisive environment today. As the world becomes more globalised, disagreements have emerged through the fault lines of our society, pitting races against each other, as is the case in Myanmar, with the majority Burmese community turning on the Rohingyas. This has exposed fundamental differences between ideologies and beliefs that threaten to descend into bedlam, such as the left-right slit that has risen to prominence in the United States. Indeed, it can be seen that governments today are mostly helpless in dealing with our fundamental differences, and have no means of addressing society’s disagreements and conflicts. Our leaders and bureaucracies are remnants of a past time, and no longer have the ability to adapt to the rapidly-changing environment of today’s world. Unless governments can break out of their current, rigid structures and emerge with a new place in the people’s psyche, governments will remain helpless in the face of our modern disagreements. It must, first and foremost, be conceded that the government remains one of the most powerful institutions on this planet. The government of a country is essentially the puppet-master behind the workings of the state, as most leaders can bend national activity and opinion to their will. The United States federal government, for instance, has relatively limited powers compared to institutions such as the state assemblies which govern individual states, but it is still able to harness the full might and will of the American people to destructive effect, as demonstrated in its repeated annihilation of its enemies in World Wars I and II. The military-industrial complex has been a key tool in major governments’ toolboxes, one which has the power to end military conflicts once and for all. In more recent terms, this has emerged in the United States’ manipulation of global events – it was able to stop the Israelis’ offensive in the Arab-Israeli War of 1971, and could respond to the Iraqis’ invasion of Kuwait with devastating effect. Evidently, governments have an overbearing capacity to harness the resources of a nation towards a common cause, one of which has been the resolution of armed conflict around the world. 

It has also been said that governments have in fact become more powerful with respect to dealing with our disagreements and skirmishes, as countries now have the ability to band together to solve international problems or to direct the power of many states towards a conflict in a country. The United Nations, comprising governments from all over the world, has used peacekeeping forces to maintain order and restore peace in conflict-ridden regions such as Sub-Saharan Africa. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, on the other hand, a regional intergovernmental body, has helped mediate international disagreements in the South China Sea. By uniting around a common cause, governments have a force multiplier that maximises their power in dealing with today’s unique transnational problems. With the full weight of international support, governments have become ever more able in resolving or ameliorating the effects of our modern conflicts. Thus, it seems as though governments have developed new, effective tools to address our current issues. However, such a view is overly optimistic, as governments in fact have no means of addressing current conflicts in an adequate manner. Today’s conflicts do not solely exist in the national realm; there are conflicts brewing in our fundamental social fabric as well. 

Conflicts such as inter-racial violence experienced between black and radical white supremacist groups have experienced a resurgence after a lull in the late 20th century, while the rich poor divide has led to tensions between the so-called “1%” and the remaining working-class populations all over the world, erupting into the worldwide “Occupy” movement that remains strong today, even after almost half a decade. These conflicts strike at the very heart of society, and they arise due to a multitude of reasons that governments have no means of tackling in full: changing demographics, as can be seen in the United States, where for the first time in its history there were more “minority” newborns than white ones; changing societal norms, brought about by the use of the internet, which has allowed fringe groups to band together and exert a collective influence on society’s direction; and changing economic conditions, with automation and technology robbing many blue-collar workers of their livelihoods and exacerbating the already-intractable problem of inequality. The government has little control over these changes, for they lie outside its conventional interests of national security, economic growth and self-preservation. In effect, governments today lie in a paradigm of their own, increasingly disconnected from the events their constituents experience. Great Britain, for instance, has found itself caught unawares by the Brexit vote, with well-heeled members of the elite (most notably on Downing Street) predicting a solid Remain victory even on the night of the referendum, deluded by the pleasant illusion that the people were not troubled by the events in Europe. Clearly, governments have been unprepared for such ground-breaking developments, causing them to be utterly ill-equipped to deal with the conflicts that matter today. In particular, governments have found themselves flailing at the sight of core social issues, for they are unexpected beasts which cannot be tamed by financial instruments nor the state’s military apparatus.

