In recent years, environmental degradation and pollution issues have increasingly become more pressing. We have seen widespread destruction of nature to giveway to the development of urban areas we live in today. As the world’s population increases further, together with the increase in the proportion of people living in cities, there is cause for concern on whether nature will further be impacted in the future. At first glance, in the modern cities that we live in today, it may seem that nature is a necessary trade-off to the energy-intensive urban lifestyle. However, I believe that it is possible for nature and urban living to coexist in these cities today, as not only have improvements in technology helped us integrate eco-friendly features into our daily life, nature has also evolved to be an integral part of many urban dwellers’ lifestyles. Granted, as people in modern cities become increasingly affluent in recent times, urban lifestyles have also become more energy-intensive, harming our natural environment. The age of globalisation has allowed for unrestricted movements of people and goods, facilitating global trade and economic growth. The bulk of this growth benefits those living in cities, particularly those who usually work in higher value-added industries such as service or research. Thus, we can see many of these cities growing at unprecedented rates, especially cities like Shanghai which were previously less developed. As such, there is a growing proportion of people in the middle-income group who have greater purchasing power and desire to consume more goods in their urban lifestyles. 4For instance, Beijing hasseen a boom in the number of vehicles on the road as many move towards ownership of their own private vehicles for transport. This causes problems,especially for the environment. As the number of cars increase, together with congestion issues due to the lack of supporting road infrastructure, the air in Beijing has worsened and seen increasing bouts of severe pollution. The air quality in Beijing has deteriorated to dangerous levels, part of which has been contributed by the problem of excessive road usage. On a more general scale, increased consumption by households require increased manufacturing and demands, further contributing to carbon emissions into the atmosphere. Thus, we cansee that as people have higher incomes, nature suffers as a result of increased consumption by households require manufacturing and production to meet these demands, further contributing to carbon emissions in the atmosphere. Thus we can see that as  people have higher incomes, nature suffers as a result of increased consumption, showing that there is indeed a trade-off between nature and urban living especially in the world today.

However, in today’s world, the development of technology has allowed for those living in cities to incorporate environmental-friendly practices in their lifestyles,integrating nature into modern living. In recent years, there have been developments in technology which have not only increased the energy efficiencyof machines, but also reduced their costs as well. Home appliances, including fridges, televisions and air-conditioning units, have since added eco-features, such as Panasonic’s air-conditioners which use intelligent sensors to monitor room conditions to minimise energy consumption. Lowered prices have reduced cost barriers of such products, making them more price competitive with traditional models. This has facilitated more and more people to adopt them instead, building eco-friendly initiatives into their lives. Another example would be electric and hybrid vehicles, which have seen prices go down due to improvements in battery technology. Although currently, these cars may still not be widely adopted due to other factors like fuel ranges or accessibility of supporting infrastructure, the increasing trend of people buying cards like the Toyota Prius paint an optimistic outlook for such eco-friendly features in daily transport. Thus, we can see that, in many cities today, improvements in technology have made it much easier for the individual to contribute to nature in their lifestyles, reducing their harmful impact on the environment. It acts as a mitigating factor against current trends such as carbon dioxide emissions andglobal warming, showing that caring for nature can indeed coexist with an urban lifestyle today.

Moreover, in today’s highly competitive world, increasing stress levels have given an opportunity for nature to play a recreational role in the lives of city dwellers. As the world becomes more competitive especially due to competition from foreign countries, many workers and students experience increasing stress levels to edge out over their rivals. Such stress often leads to negative impacts onpsychological health and well-being if left unattended to. Thus, many people living in cities often seek ways to relieve the stress from work, through engaging in recreational activities. In many countries, nature then plays a huge role in providing a way for people to calm their mind and take a break away from the high-rise urban landscape. Nature, as a form of recreation, has become an integral part of urban living for many. For example, in New York City, many would visit the Central Park to have a  a stroll or hang out with their peers due to  its scenic nature away from the buzz in the city. This is prevalent in other major cities too, such as London with Hyde Park or Singapore with multiple parks and nature reserves spread across the country. There are other ways of engaging with nature too. For instance, there is a growing trend of people engaging in urban farming, where they can engage in recreational gardening in empty plots of land in the city like on rooftop gardens. Thus, we can see that nature has grown to coexist with urban lifestyles, by providing a means of recreation and relaxation in the stressful world we live in today.
