Another reason that urban living and nature can, and indeed should, co-exist is the increasing acceptance of nature as a necessity to good living, due to recent scientific progress showing its benefits. Urban living no longer excludes nature, but has seen a shift towards its inclusion instead. In many modern cities, the ideaof urban living has often grown to include the provision of green spaces for leisure and recreation, and in light of that, it may be becoming increasinglypossible for them to co-exist in the cities of today as mindsets change to accommodate. This shift can be seen in a range of cities worldwide, though it has been less recent for some. Many Scandinavian countries, including Norway and Sweden, have sought to increase the greenery and nature in their cities through schemes and policies that encourage planners to ensure that every person in the city has access to a green space in their neighbourhood. Singapore too, seeks this, with a goal of 80% of the population to be living within 1km of a green space. It is a phenomenon even present in developing countries like Indiaor Brazil, both of which have implemented urban planning that accounts for green spaces in their cities today. Therefore, as mindsets and ideas of what constitute urban living change, especially important in today’s context as studies show that exposure to greenery and nature has health benefits, the possibility of coexistence between urban living and nature is set to increase.

Finally, the idea of coexistence implies that there is some form of give and take involved in the process. While parts of nature may be difficult to reconcile with the concept of urban living, others are less so. Urban living is regarded by many to mean a lifestyle centred in the city, with traits such as convenience and a fastpace. These characteristics are not, in fact, at odds to certain aspects of nature, especially if the existence of said nature brings benefit to those leading urban lifestyles. Keeping an herb garden or beehive, as is allowed in the state of New York in the United States, can actually be beneficial to the urban dwellers. In fact, since these types of cultivation do not need much space, which tends to be scarce in modern cities, and additionally, can provide a source of income or eliminate the need to purchase certain goods, which may reduce the costs of living that are generally very high in most modern cities, they might actually be a complement and advantage in tackling urban living and its associated problems, rather than something to be eradicated or avoided. Hence, nature may not be at odds to urban living, provided that the subset of nature involved fits nicely into the existing characteristics that define urban living, like convenience or high population densities, and the ability to co-exist may be greater if people are more aware of this.

To conclude, while the initial response of many may be to dismiss the idea of nature being able to co-exist with urban living, and the sentiment does have a point of successful contention when the nature in question cannot exist together with the other characteristics of urban living, we cannot say coexistence is entirely impossible and cannot be done. Rather, there are many ways for nature and urban living to successfully co-exist, especially in today’s world of advancing technology and changing mindsets, provided that effort is made to ensure that they are complementarily implemented, instead of at odds.
