Due to the apparent rise in frequency and incidents of fake news, as brought to light during the 2016 US presidential election, many media outlets have placed an increased emphasis on the factual accuracy of what they report. This is true of some of the established media outlets worldwide, including countries suchas Germany, where concerns about the honesty of the media was questioned after some news outlets reported the occurrence of a violent incident happening on New Year’s Eve when there was none. In response to readers’ heightened awareness of the questionable veracity of whatever the media presents due to events such as the above, however, established news outlets have taken the initiative to become more reliable sources. For example, in the context of Germany, even news outlets with rather dubious reputations – such as that of a local tabloid known for its salacious reporting and penchant forsensationalising – have publicly vouched to maintain journalistic integrity in its subsequent issues. To that end, some of these outlets are working with homegrown organisations such as Correctiv (based in Germany) to confirm the factual accuracy of the stories they publish. This is thus reflective of a concerted effort to present truthful media coverage despite mistakes previous made, and suggests that they will maintain a  sufficient level of truth to be relied upon in times to come. However, today’s world of journalism, due to political, social or economic incentives or problems, there are many occasions in which the information presented might not be wholly true. To this end, news from the media should thus be taken with a pinch of salt, with the level of trust inthe media being accorded to it by the reader in terms of the context whereby the journalist wrote a particular article, or even the country from which the news outlet in question has its headquarters.

Political context is of key relevance in ascertaining if a media outlet presents truthful news and can hence be relied upon, in terms of the amount of a state control present in the society. In authoritarian regimes, or even democraciesless liberal in nature, the media can end up being a mere mouthpiece of the government that fails to act as an effective fourth estate by omitting reports on any, for instance, results from a failed policy that might reflect poorly on the government. This is the concern that many human rights watch officials have about the situation in countries as Russia, China, and increasingly, Turkey. In Turkey, the shuttering of popular newspapers such as Zaman, and the replacement of its original office of editors with one of Erdogan’s office’s own choosing led to the newspaper’s complete reversal in stance from critical to very supportive of the current government, with articles that gloss over any views perceived to be dissident in nature. Of course, this can be taken to new extremes when it comes to countries such as North Korea, where any mediacoverage may be completely false, and presented simply to further the interests of the government. Fortunately, even if the trend is worrying, many countries today still have relatively better levels of freedom of the press. However, it is nonetheless a factor to be considered as a reason why some media should not be taken at face-value.

The same can also be said for objectives of alternative news media outlets aside from journalistic purposes of presenting and reporting on the truths oftoday’s world. Especially pertinent in today’s age is the financial incentive that comes with higher ratings. Due to the saturation of the news and media industry, rival firms have taken to increasingly sensationalised, exaggerated or even utterly fake news with zero factual accuracy in order to generate revenue. A rather infamous, yet recent example would be the decision of Fox News to post an article on the death of a Democratic politician who belonged to the Democratic National Committee (DNC), who the article accused of having leaked inside information about Clinton and other DNC members during the election season to WikiLeaks, rather than attributing it to Russian hackers. Not one to be one-upped, other far right news sources soon put up articles boldly headlined with titles along the lines of “Information leak an insidejob, not by Russians!”, which generated much readership due to their controversial nature. The crux of the issue is that all of this was done with any fact-checking on the truth of the matter, in which these turned out to be baseless accusations. It can thus be seen that sometimes, the tendency of larger-than-life stories to be popular and the wishes of some media outlets to exploit this causes them to present fake news that should not be fully relied upon. This is especially true for media that tends to be very extreme in its bias, whether on partisan, ethnic or gender lines, and should be considered when evaluating the reliability of some media.
