Critics of the idea often point to the innate characteristics of urban living, and as a result, cities, as reasons for why coexistence is impossible. Urban living is associated with a high population density style of living, surrounded by others, and with a focus on jobs away from the primary sector of resource extraction,which includes industries like agriculture. Urban living tends to require a greater consumption of resources from nature than rural environments, as people often drive and electricity is being used in huge amounts thanks to giant shopping mallsor billboards, among other reasons. The same critics like to say that it is inevitable for there to be a clash between humans and nature in the urban context, especially as the cities today are continually having to expand to caterto influxes of people. It is true that urban living often results in the concretisation of lands, with green spaces bulldozed in favour of roads, or in a notable case in Singapore, a prospective MRT (Mass Rapid Transit) line. Even though issues of preserving the nature that has sat at the Central Catchment Reserve, in the very heart of the city, arose, the final decision was that merely an environmental risk assessment would be carried out, rather than a cessation of the project. Thisclearly seems to denote that ultimately, the needs of the urban population will outweigh the benefits of nature, forcing nature out of the urban context.

Additionally, others raise the point of view that urban living, with highly planned not even allow for the existence of nature in its truest form. In this case, nature is regarded to be ‘wild’, free from human touch or interaction. Therefore, the truly ‘wild’ nature cannot co-exist, or even exist, in urban living situations. This line of argument does hold water, as we look to the situations of urban life in cities today. Given that people travel all over the city, the parts of nature that are a threat to human safety surely cannot co-exist in a city. If a tiger were to suddenly appear and walk through the streets of London, it would certainly spark panic, and there would be a threat not only to the humans, but also to the tiger, as people could shoot at or hurt it in their panic. Hence, an attempt to co-exist with the more dangerous forms of naturecould cause harm to befall both those engaged in urban living and nature itself. While it is unlikely to see a tiger in modern cities today, there are plenty ofother initially unassuming creatures or plants that are dangerous to humans. Urban living thus cannot co-exist with a truly wild nature, because it would require fundamental shifts in the way we live, to the point where characteristics of urban living could be lost. Another example to bring up would be the thousands of skyscraper buildings, a relatively modern construction, in cities worldwide, which have sprung up due to the urban lifestyle that requires many to live in apartments and small houses instead of mansions, for reasons of space and money. These skyscrapers pose a danger to many of the animals in nature, and we see this manifested in how thousands of birds are reported each year as having slammed into the glass windows of these structures, having been unable to distinguish them as hazards. So, we see why many claim that urban living and nature cannot co-exist.

However, it seems that many of these issues that lead critics to condemn the idea of coexistence stem from the fact that modern cities have often tried to overcome, not work with, the forces of nature. Instead of considering ways forurban living that incorporate or integrate with nature, many efforts to improve and build cities and urban living tend to work against, or without regard for, nature, and this can generate the impression that urban living and nature are at odds, when they do not have to be. Take Singapore’s Kallang-Bishan floodway as an example. It was originally a river, before it was channelized and concretisedinto a straight drain for the purposes of stormwater runoff. This did alleviate the issue of flooding that had plagued the area, and served as a boon for some to claim that nature had to be conquered for the urban dwellers in the area to continue living well. However, this was only a stop-gap measure, and in years where nature’s forces resulted in heavier precipitation, the channel overflowed and inundated some of the houses anyway. This led the Singapore government to try and change the way they were approaching the issue, leading to the destruction of the concrete man-made channel, back to a gently meandering river, with wildlife and vegetation. Now, the area serves as an extremely effective catchment area and floodplain, nature taking the water that the asphalt roads and bricked pavements cannot handle. This is an exemplary ideal of coexistence, where nature acts to preserve the urban living concept by protecting the houses and urban dwellers when it is given the chance and worked with, instead of against. This is not the only case, as the destruction of dams near cities in the U.S. and Latin America have also shown that cities and those living in them can benefit when working in tandem and co-existing with nature. Hence, coexistence between urban living and nature is definitely possible, and may beeven more so in modern cities, where technological advancement has made it possible to engineer effective solutions like the aforementioned turning of the channel of concrete back into a sustainable river through creative engineering.
