There are many different kinds of freedom. One of them is the freedom of speech. This is something that many people are extremely passionate about and believe is a basic human right. For instance, American society has always heralded their embrace of free speech.10 However, free speech can have verydetrimental impacts on society due to humans being inherently selfish beings: people do not necessarily consider the impact of their words on the larger society. When given the freedom to speak their mind, more often than not controversial topics are brought up or oppressive personal views are expressed and in the process, feelings are hurt and conflict ensues. Sometimes even safety of the people involved is threatened. For instance, in Singapore the infamous Anton Casey incident taught Singaporeans how large an impact their words can have. After being incessantly shamed and bullied online for saying some controversial things about Singapore society, Anton Casey started receiving death threats. Eventually, he was forced to flee the country for his own safety. While it can be argued that Singaporeans were simply expressing themselves freely, this is a prime example of how people do not know how not to abuse this right given to them. Instead of using the freedom to speak what is on their mind for the betterment of society, they use it to harm one another. As such, we can see how freedom can be detrimental and destructive for society.

Another reason why freedom is detrimental to society is that humans are volatile and unpredictable. Humans therefore cannot be trusted to utilise their autonomy responsibly. Ultimately humans, given the freedom, the right to do what they want without regulation can lead to the destabilising of society. People, being unpredictable, act on their instincts and this can result indevastation. An example that exemplifies this phenomenon would be that of the Sandy Hook Elementary shootings. A man murdered several children and a few teachers from the elementary school by shooting them before shooting himself just as the police arrived. This incident tore apart many of the children’s families and broke the world’s heart. Several countries offered their condolences to America in that dark time. However, everyone knew that the reason that such a tragedy had occurred in the first place was due to the unregulated ownership of guns in America. The freedom that Americans possess to own a gun has proved, time and time again, to be extremely destructive for society. Shootings have become commonplace in their society. The freedom to own a gun gives Americans the ability to exercise control over it, to whatever degree they choose to. The unpredictability and fallibility of the human mind results in many guns landing in the wrong hands and being used for wrong purposes. Chaos and tragedy ensues. Hence, it is evident how freedom for humans to be able to act on their impulses can be extremely harmful to society.

However, freedom has also been very constructive and beneficial to society. The freedom of expression allows humans to express themselves through many mediums. This freedom has led to the creation of masterpieces in the form of literary works, symphonies, paintings and so much more. The need to express oneself is a very fundamental and crucial one for humans and has been since the beginning of our existence. This right to release our thoughts and emotions has led to the creation of an arts culture and arts scene that thrives. As art is subjective and a coping mechanism for many, it should be unregulated. This freedom allows artists to create beautiful, diverse works and when a community allows for this to happen, cultural appreciation is sure to follow. In Singapore, the local arts scene is very diverse and appreciates all races and cultures equally. A visit to the Singapore Art Museum will reveal art works created by local artists of many different ethnicities, their art being influenced by their heritage. This appreciation of all the different art forms, from shadow puppetry to bharatnatyam encourages people to be not just tolerant of one another’s cultures but to go one step beyond and appreciate it as well. The freedom for artists of all backgrounds to express themselves is what presents such an opportunity for appreciation and learning in the first place. Without the right to create and be creative, society would without a doubt be a much less accepting and vibrant place. Hence, the freedom to express and create, which allows for the creation of art, is vital and undeniably constructive for society’s welfare.
