Some may argue that there are some politicians who are capable enough to make bold moves to help their country and the international community navigate through difficult situations. These leaders are unfazed by the many crises facing the world today and are able to make sound decisions that help to alleviate these issues. For example, when faced with the serious humanitarian crisis that is the Syrian refugee crisis, German chancellor Angela Merkel madethe bold decision to open Germany’s borders to these refugees who were fleeing the devastating war in Syria. This greatly helped to reduce the number of refugees that were fleeing their country and could not find a new home, helping to alleviate a serious crisis. In addition, her decision set an example forother countries to follow, encouraging other neighbouring countries to accept more refugees as well. Accepting a large number of refugees with different backgrounds and cultures into a country and helping them to integrateundoubtedly posed a large logistic challenge and put a great strain on a country’s budget and hence only a capable leader would be willing to take such a bold step and be able to manage the situation well. This shows that even in the light of the increasingly serious and difficult crises facing the international community today, there are some leaders who are willing and are capable enough to take bold steps to alleviate seemingly insurmountable crises.

However, political leaders so capable are seemingly becoming the minority today. In an attempt to gain power, many politicians are taking the easy route out – refusing to face global problems head on and instead pandering to popular sentiments within a country. In many Western countries today, politicians are sticking their head inthe sand, refusing to acknowledge global issues and promising to close off their country to the outside world. One of the more high profile incidents was the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union, also known as Brexit. Politicians such as Boris Johnson and Nigel Farage capitalised on the British people’s fear of immigrants and refugees, choosing to ignore the growing crisis just outside their borders and going with the popular sentiment to close the country’s borders and stop the flow of immigrants and refugees into the U.K. These politicians do not want to face the growing refugee crisis, trying to win people over using popular sentiments instead, showing that they are incapable of not only dealing effectively with aserious crisis, but also winning voters over with tangible and feasible policies to improve their lives. The pro-Brexit politicians managed to push their agendathrough, which may lead to undesirable consequences to people outside and within the U.K. Such politicians who are incapable of facing the numerous issues facing the global community today are not unique to the U.K. They gain power by pushing populist, protectionist policies that are unsustainable in the long run, showing that in a time where international cooperation and aid are required, there are politicians who are seemingly incapable of stepping up to the plate.

In addition, in today’s hyper-partisan world, politicians are incapable of cooperating to solve serious issues within their country and within the international community. Instead, these leaders choose to place more emphasis on their party’s agenda than on the betterment of a country’s citizens. Crucial issues like healthcare and government budget are being used to push partisan goals, and as a result have less chance of getting passed into law. This results in citizens suffering from inadequate government aid in crucial areas such as healthcare and infrastructure. For example, politicians in the United States Congress are sharply divided along party lines, and do not cooperate to pass bills that are beneficial to its citizens. Americans pay the highest amount for healthcare in the world, and yet it took 45 years before a comprehensive healthcare bill was signed into law by President Obama. Politicians from the opposition party refused to support the bill, and employed strategies like filibustering to prevent the passage of the bill. This eventually led to a shutdown of the U.S. government, as Congress could not pass a government budget that funds Obamacare. The shutdown led to other consequences such as government employees having to work without receiving a salary. Evidently, despite the fact that the American people were facing serious issues such as a poor healthcare system, U.S. politicians were incapable of seeing the bigger picture and could only focus on  petty partisan politics, resulting in theAmerican people having to suffer from insufficient government aid. Such shortsighted politicians are detrimental to the well-being and satisfaction of a country’s citizens, and are definitely not up to the job. 
