Many argue that offering financial or material aid does not always result in more harm than good when it is used to address root causes of the problem at hand. When the issue faced by the country is studied and analysed at depth by relevant authorities, before channeling funds meticulously and efficiently into the appropriate industries or policies that can benefit the country, aid does more good than harm. In Botswana, foreign aid that was received to help the country climb over the poverty line was managed skillfully by the government, which used it to fund its renewed education measures and healthcare system. In such cases of stringent care taken to ensure aid is distributed well, less harm is done as the finances are effective in targeting the root cause of the problem of poverty. With better education and more affordable healthcare, the workforce is more likely to be skilled and productive, in turn reaping economic growth that benefits the country in need. In this way, efficient management of financial aid is much less likely to bring about harm than good. 

However, this is not always the case. In most situations, providing financial aid indeed does more harm than good to countries when the funds are misused by authorities for selfish causes, leading to a further perpetuation of socio-economic inequalities. Given that most countries that receive financial aid are often developing nations that may not always be ruled by fiar or just leaders, money sent to such countries with the intention of improving existing economic crises often ends up in the hands of corrupt politicians. As a result, the finances may not be invested into policymaking that helps the country; rather, they are pocketed by nation leaders. Uganda, Zambia and Sierra Leone are part of a long list of African nations whose leaders earned millions out of mishandling incoming foreign aid. The unaccountability of the political systems in these developing countries, coupled with the lack of transparency in the process of transferring aid, which leads to aid not reaching the correct beneficiaries, could lead to rich politicians and officers of higher ranks getting richer while the poor continue to struggle. Hence, foreign aid widens the socio-economic gap between the rich minority and the poor majority in developing countries, thus doing more harm than good.

Providing aid to countries in need could also potentially be counter-productive when it aggravates existing problems rather than ameliorating them, thus causing more harm than good. One such instance is the Rohingya Refugee Crisis, which recently led the Bangladeshi government to place a request for all incoming foreign aid to be halted. This was due to the influx of aid into Bangladesh encouraging refugees from Rakhine to cross borders illegally. In this case, foreign aid, although intended to provide assistance to the host country on a humanitarian basis, proved to defeat its own purpose as it gave the green light for more refugees to enter it. This only worsened the problem of overcrowding and abysmal living conditions at the borders of Bangladesh and Myanmar. The material aid could have been used and managed efficiently to mitigate the adverse effects of the sudden inflow of refugees, thus having potential to do good for the receiving nation. However, this was outweighed by the detrimental fact that the provision of aid sent the Rohingya positive signals about the living conditions in Bangladesh, hence rendering foreign aid more harmful and counterproductive than useful. 