However, the government sometimes needs to follow public opinion. As the French political philosopher Montesquieu has pointed out, the government essentially has 'signed' a social contract with the people and therefore they should rule according to popular will. This is especially true when there is a divergence between what the government wants for the country and what the public want. When the people elect the government and give it the mandate to rule the country, people are expecting wise stewardship in return, and the government needs to respect the wishes of the people. The watershed election that happened in 2011 in Singapore illustrates the point. The People's Action Party IPAP), Singapore's ruling party, has always placed heavy emphasis on economic growth. Thus, the government has put in a series of policies to introduce more foreign workers in order to achieve higher GDP growth, However, some Singaporeans see things differently. A significant portion of the population does not wish to see so much competition or high economic growth at the expense of the locals' standard of living. The influx of foreign workers has catalysed many problems in Singapore such as the crowded transport system. Also, the added competition in the workplace is mentally debilitating and exhausting. Here, we have a clear divergence between the people's wishes and the government's goals. The people want a more enjoyable lifestyle whereas the government wants to pursue high GDP growth. In such cases, the government could then respect the public opinion and change its policies. Indeed, after the watershed election for the PAP which saw its popularity drop to the lowest in ten years, the government relaxed its strict prioritising of economic growth. Therefore, the government should not always ignore public opinion because when voters select the government, they are expecting the politicians to follow the popular will. Policy-making should thus be "with the people" and "for the people". 

In fact, the extent to which political leaders should ignore public opinion depends on the type of political system. If the system is democratic in nature, failure to follow public opinion may result in the government being unseated. This is what happened in the Ivory Coast. When the newly elected government decided to cut fuel subsidies, rowdy protests erupted and the military eventually took over the government. In contrast, when Indian politicians implemented crowd-pleasing policies like subsidies on food and electricity, the policies cemented the party's position as the next government, Although the Indian politicians are accused by the international community of taking a populist approach, the government is constrained by the political system and can only make changes bit by bit. A big overhaul to the system is certainly undesirable. On the other hand, China's one-party rule gives it all the power to enact any policies and the Communist Party in China thus has more freedom. Ignoring the public opinion would not result in immediate repercussions for the party. Hence, the party was able to implement the aforementioned one-child policy despite the fact that a significant portion of the public was against it. Therefore, it is clear that the political system does play a part in determining the extent to which the political leaders should and can ignore public opinion.

In conclusion, although the modern democratic nations often face the problem of "the unenlightened masses", the government sometimes needs to be firm in its stance, reminiscent of what the Prime Minister of Singapore said, "We have to be both good-headed and hard-headed". Political leaders should strive to strike a balance between insisting on their stand and making a compromise. After all, a nation's government should be with its people and for its people.
