No realm is more complicated and uncertain than the realm of politics. Always under the pressure and scrutiny of the public, the media and other global watchdogs, political leaders often get entangled - In predicaments and dilemmas when it comes to policy making. How far then, can political leaders ignore aid pay no attention to the views of the general populace considering that, after all, power and authority lies in the hands of the former? I believe that political leaders should riot disregard public sentiment to a large extent because this can cause devastating social repercussions for the nation. Furthermore, the government has a duty to ensure the welfare and security of its citizens and by ignoring public opinion, it utterly fails in the very duty it was established to fulfil. 

Ignorance of the people's views and opinions on certain matters can ultimately lead to detrimental social consequences, for this ignorance only serves to fuel the people's rage over the debated issues. This will then lead the people to take matters into their own hands and incite them to rebel, causing mass destruction and chaos_ The recent anti-alcohol protests in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu would serve as a pertinent example of this - Sasi Perumal, a Gandhian social activist, in protest of the rampant alcohol abuse by the people, climbed up a cell-phone tower where he bellowed chants, condemning the worrying situation in Tamil Nadu caused by alcohol abuse, such as increasing family problems and divorces. The district's emergency services tried to get him down from the tower, but despite a successful rescue, Sasi Perumal was unfortunately pronounced dead. This sparked widespread protests across Tamil Nadu where the people from all walks of life called for the closing of all alcohol shops. Despite the sheer number of protests and protesters, the state government took no action to comply with the people's sentiments and this only infuriated an already angry populace. Devastating social repercussions such as state-wide closure of shops and cessation of all public transport followed suit, causing much trouble and difficulty for the general public. Thus, it can be seen from this example that ignoring the people's opinion can culminate in adverse social consequences which will lead to chaos eventually. Thus, it is not apt for political leaders to ignore public opinion. 

Every government is established to provide welfare and security for its people and is obliged by social contract to do so. Thus, with regards to important issues that concern the bread and butter of the people, ignoring the people's opinions and views will only put the government in a negative light as it will have failed to address the problems that face the people, rendering its governance as a failure. A recent example that demonstrates this is the Land Reclamation Act in the Indian constitution. Under the secular Congress government, the Act stated that the government is allowed to take land from the farmers for developmental purposes only if it had sufficient consent from the farmers themselves. This reflected the populist, yet consultative nature of the Congress government. However, later when the economy-centric Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power, Prime Minister Narendra Modi attempted to make changes to the Act, allowing the government to forcefully claim arable land from the farmers without their approval. This sparked outrage among the farmers and instigated protests across the nation. Yet the BJP was intent on passing this new Bill in parliament, amidst vehement opposition from other political parties. This example clearly illustrates that by disregarding the people's opinions, the government had failed to address the needs of the very electorate that conferred it its power and authority. This reflects badly on the government, leading the nation into disarray. Therefore, political leaders should not ignore public views. 
