Politics is inextricably linked to governance, and the actions of political leaders are often regarded as the touchstone of how a country is run. Public opinion on the other hand, plays a subtler yet indisputably important role as well. The different degrees to which political leaders take into account public opinion give rise to the various forms of governance that have existed and still exist in today's society, For instance, authoritarian figures are the result of a complete disregard for public opinion, while democracies shape their governance according to the opinions of the public. However, each type of government has its own distinct set of limitations and flaws, as well as strengths. While political leaders could ignore public opinion because popular views may not be in the best interest of the country, and can result in the marginalisation of the minority, I am still of the opinion that political leaders should be open to hearing their people's views. This is because public opinion acts as a check and balance against governmental inefficiencies and corruption, allows the government to implement laws for the benefit of the people, and prevents the rise of authoritarian regimes_ it is important to bear in mind the primary role of political leaders, which is to do what is best for the people. Thus, public opinion and the influence it has on political leaders should not always be mutually exclusive.

By listening to the views of the people, political leaders will be more aware of the people's needs and desires, thus shaping their policies to the best interests of society_ For instance, Shinzo Abe's decision to revoke Article 9 of Japan's Constitution has engendered much anger and frustration among the Japanese. Revoking Article 9 enables Japan to participate in conflicts or skirmishes in the rest of the world in the event that an ally requires help, With the Japanese rallying on the streets against Abe's nationalist agendas abroad, it is a clear signal to him that the Japanese people desire peace and stability. in Singapore, the opinions of the public have also guided the governance of the ruling People's Action Party (PAP), giving rise to a higher standard of living for Singaporeans. After taking in the various woes of the people, Prime minister Lee Hsien Lacing implemented a slew of reforms and new social safety nets during the 2015 National Day Rally that greatly benefited the country's welfare. Raising the income ceiling for Executive Condominiums for example, has benefited middle-income Singaporeans who were at the mercy of rising costs of living. Evidently, by taking into account the views of the public, PM Lee was better able to come up with policies that reflected the wishes of the people. Therefore, public opinion can effectively act as a guide for political leaders, resulting in better governance for the welfare of society as a whole. 

Public opinion also serves as a check and balance to political leaders, preventing inefficiencies in governance or corruption from growing rampant, In societies that are politically aware, the public often keeps up to date with the government's actions and keeps a look out for any signs of inefficiency that could engender a country's downfall. In Malaysia, Prime Minister Najib Razak's recent corruption allegations have resulted in the worsening of the financial health of the economy, and a rapid fall of the Malaysian ringgit In response, many Malaysians have started peaceful protests against him, voicing their desire for him to step down from his position as Prime Minister, in what i5 known as the Bersih Movement. The prodigious amount of media coverage that the Bersih Movement has garnered is also attracting international criticism on Prime Minister Najib's governance, for what they feel is to the best interest of Malaysia. Public opinion can thus be a powerful tool that has the capability to bring change to a country's governance. Public leaders should thus not treat public opinion lightly and turn a blind eye to the demands of the people. 

