Similarly in China, where air pollution levels are sky high and are deemed to have reached cancerous levels, online netizens are taking up a more proactive stance in demanding for change. With public opinion deeply critical of the ruling party's governance over China's environmental problems, Xi Jinping has started China's environmental clean up, which sees China pledging to reduce carbon emission levels to acceptable levels by 2020. Public opinion can therefore serve as a catalyst for change that could bring benefit to a country, should political leaders choose to heed it.

However, some might argue that political leaders should ignore the views of the public, as it could result in a tyranny of the majority that marginalises the views of the minority. By taking into account public opinion, political leaders are in danger of only heeding the views of the majority, which can only be a crucible for disaster. This is evident in Indonesia, where the government does what is in the best interest for the majority ethnic Indonesians at the expense of the Chinese. As a result, the Chinese immigrants in Indonesia are treated as second-class citizens and have the 'ethnic Chinese' label on their identity cards, as opposed to just 'Indonesian' for other citizens, in order to be differentiated easily. The marginalisation of the minority race can also be seen in Burma today, with secessionist movements from the Chins, Kachins and Karens erupting sporadically. This is the result of the government's intransigence of listening to the majority pro-Buddhist sentiments, and exacting laws in favour of public opinion. Hence, the tyranny of the majority is a problem that may arise when leaders heed public opinion. 

Yet, it is important to note that public opinion may not always stem from domestic sources, and could be derived from international opinions as well. Hence, more often than not, international public opinion can help political leaders make more informed choices that do not necessarily lead to the marginalisation of the minority. A noteworthy example is the freeing of political prisoners in Tazmamart, Morocco, due to the influence of international public opinion. After a coup d'etat carried out by a minority group against King Hassan II of Morocco, the insurgents were thrown into an underground prison for 18 years, one of the worst violations of human rights in history. Though this incident did not garner much attention in Morocco due to the prisoners being of a minority race, the prisoners were finally released due to international opinion that put pressure on the Moroccan government, demanding their immediate release. Hence, this shows that public opinion still remains as an important tool for good governance, as the international scope of it is a lightning rod for checks and balances against any governmental inefficacy. In conclusion, public opinion — both domestic and international — should more often than not, be heeded by political leaders. With the mandate of the people, political leaders at the forefront of governance can bring about change to a country that could better the lives of its citizens.  
