For the variegated forms of principles and ideologies that guide a nation's government, from the economic pragmatism of Singapore's People's Action Party (PAP) to the paternalistic socialism that man: Nordic governments traditionally espouse, the common denominator remains unchanged: Government policies. Government policies, be they couched in socialist, neoliberaI or even libertarian rhetoric when advocated by politicians are an indispensable tool to the government for a succinct reason: they have proven, time and time again, to be one of the most effective mechanisms with which the government can help its people to achieve what Plato called "a good life". However, there have been struggles for governments to strike a balance between succumbing to pressure and giving in to the demands of its people, and remain independent in decision-making. I am of the view that political leaders should ignore public opinion to a certain degree in order to make prudent and effective long-term plans for the country. 

One of the problems that politicians face when formulating policies is what political thinkers call "the unenlightened masses". Often, the masses are not as informed as they may fail to see what is best for the country. This often puts politicians in a constant struggle, as they need to please the people and, at the same time, implement policies that serve the country's long-term interest. Given the fact that most of the population is caught up in nine-to-five jobs, it is not a realistic goal for the entire population to understand policymaking and determine what the best policy is for the country. On the contrary, the politicians that we have selected have gone through rigorous training and have information that the public do not have access to. Thus, they are in a better position to decide what the best policy is for the country, even if the public might disagree. For example, the Pena government in Mexico is making bold economic reforms under the advice of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) graduate, and the ruling People's Action Party in Singapore also has politicians who have graduated from the world's top universities. Thus, politicians often have the necessary and relevant knowledge that the public does not possess. in fact, by ignoring public opinion, the Chinese government has achieved laudable results. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government enacted the famous one-child policy. The policy made the government notorious domestically back then because it was seen as an infringement of individual rights. 

However, because of the policy, families have been able to better utilise resources to provide education for their children and even send them to universities. As a result, the productivity of the entire society has increased and the twenty years of double-digit GDP growth serve as a testament to its success. Therefore, public policy making is a science that requires one to devote a considerate amount of time and energy. The masses generally do not have the knowledge and foresight and neither do they have the time to study the country's circumstances in detail, Thus, although the public might voice differing opinions, political leaders should ignore public opinion in their decision-making. 
