Moreover, it is highly possible that the sea of negative repercussions they experience can easily flood over to other countries, especially in view of the increasing interconnectedness of economies and socio-political affairs of countries. By virtue of safeguarding their own natural welfare and existence, some argue that it is hence necessary for countries to intervene in others’ problems. However, I believe that based on interventionist actions adopted by many countries historically, it is regrettably to conclude that many simply use “intervention” as a false pretext for their own hegemonic ambitions, often at the expense of the nations they attempt to interfere with, making such intervention largely unjustified. In all honesty, if Kuwait was not of strategic use to the US and her Middle-Eastern allies, would they have intervened at all? Probably not. Would Kuwait have been left to her condemned fate under Saddam Hussein’s regime? Quite possibly. Sadly, global politics tends to follow realpolitik, where actions taken by nations are largely underpinned by pragmatism and the need to protect national self-interests, even if that means bringing harm unto another. Time and again, we have witnessed how nations intervene in another’s affairs, only to let them burn to the ground when they are no longer of any significance. Fast-forward a decade from the Kuwaiti invasion, and we have the US invasion of Saddam’s Iraq, this time under the pretext of Iraq owning chemical weapons and employing them against civilians. But when the invasion ended, no weapons were ever found, and many international theorists believe that the true intention of the American invasion was to safeguard oil in the Middle East, while the official line of chemical weapons was merely a duplicitous pretext. Furthermore, after ousting Saddam, the US military quickly withdrew its forces, leaving a power vacuum that caused a power struggle that swept the nation like a hurricane. Sectarian violence between the Sunnis and Shiites ensued, and this eventually led to the rise of extremist group ISIS. One would question, then: What good ever came out of that invasion besides fulfilling the US’ own self-pursuits? In fact, it is all the more insidious that “foreign intervention” is used as a tool by power-hungry nations to masquerade their selfish agendas as justified and democratic, at the expense of the host country’s welfare. Clearly, foreign intervention in such scenarios is highly undesirable.

Furthermore, nations often intervene in what they feel is the best way possible, but fail to realise that their method often fails to bear fruit and is hence unwarranted. For example, when nations intervene by providing aid to other countries, it often comes in the form of monetary and food aid, but these are often short-term solutions that fail to create sustainable solutions. The 2002 Monterrey Consensus, for instance, witnessed the developed world pledging to allocate 0.7% of its GNP to the Third World. Every year since, billions of dollars have been donated to African states, but most of the aid fails to reach the needy, because they end up lining the pockets of corrupt rulers. 

Moreover, however much aid eventually trickles down to the people often provide temporary relief, it does not solve the root cause of poverty. Low-skilled, uneducated labour, poor economic infrastructure, and corrupt political system are factors that have continued to plague these nations and perpetuate foreign countries who intervene should aim to providing only monetary and resource aid, they not only with skills to propel themselves out of their destitute plight, but also exacerbate the situation by creating a cycle of dependency on aid. Instead, nations have to realise that the right way to intervene is to provide social reform initiatives and economic restructuring guidance to lift countries out of their tragic state. But of course, most countries remain indifferent to this, providing aid simply to fulfil their moral obligations but not actually concerned with how their aid will benefit the people in the long run. It is this apathy and ignorance that causes countries to adopt incontrovertibly facile solutions in an attempt to solve infinitely more complex problems, and this is what makes their “intervention” so futile and unnecessary. To aggravate the situation, some countries even adopt policies that will jeopardise any benefits that their aid has provided. For example, the US donates about USD 32 billion a year to African states, but concurrently adopts protectionist measures by imposing high tariffs on African agricultural imports to protect local farmers, which is estimated to cost the African agricultural industry about USD 50 billion, more than the worth of aid provided. Sadly, when push comes to shove and a conflict of interest arises, nations will ultimately choose to protect themselves, rendering such aid ineffective.
