Now, some might ask “why can an axiom just be rejected?” to which the answer is “why not?” This practice is perfectly coherent with math being just a game. Indeed, if on the basis of some other power or reason, such as logic, some axioms definitely needed to be true, then we could not just reject our axioms as and when we like (at least not how we could do so within a game). But in math, we do reject axioms from time to time – indeed completely new fields are often discovered from relaxing an assumption of the existing field. Consider again the creation of irrational numbers. To some Greeks, these numbers are evil, they could not be written as the ratio of 2 normal numbers. Eventually the world just accepted the use of those “weird, evil” numbers and moved on. Similarly, some of us find it difficult to accept that axioms can be revised and lead to the creation of new systems – but this is just a fact of math that makes most sense when we consider math to be just a game played according to deductive rules that we imposed upon it.

As always, there is an implication to this – that two seemingly contradictory statements can be true at the same time. “The sum of interior angles of a triangle is 180°” and “the sum of interior angles of a triangle is 270°” are statements that are equally true – even if they seem contradictory. We all know that ~[P^~P], but isn’t the above a clear example of this? The first statement can be proven in Euclidean geometry, and the second in spherical geometry. How can this be? Perhaps a real world illustration would make it simpler – the former is true when your triangle is flat (on a plane) while the latter is true if your triangle is constructed on a sphere. The mistake is to say that both are triangles and so should have the same angle sum. They are fundamentally different because they are construed in different axiomatic systems, with different interpretations in the real world. Within an axiomatic system, the principle of non-contradiction certainly holds, but we must be careful to note that a mathematical object’s properties can only be understood within the context of the axiomatic theory itself. Another, perhaps more mind-boggling example, is to consider “what is 1+2+3+4+…” We would normally say that the sum is infinity, but mathematicians say that under certain assumptions (i.e. if you are in the right axiomatic system), the answer could be -1/12. Both axioms are equally valid, they just have different fundamental axiomatic interpretations of what a “sum” is. This does seem to show that math is meaningless however, no statement can be true everywhere, only within an axiomatic system. Doesn’t this make math meaningless? If I can’t know what 1+1 is, then what am I wasting my life on? The answer to this is that we can know the truth of certain axioms, just within a system itself. Math still has lots of meaning – it shows all the truths that necessarily follow from a set of simple axioms. 5 simple axioms and I can deduce all the truths about geometry in a plane. 

Apart from this applicability of math in itself, this idea of how truths can be deduced from a set of simple assumptions has many practical applications in science. For instance, if I assume that in a key step of a chemical reaction, there is only 1 reactant molecule, then the rules of math allow me to deduce how the concentrations of reactant and product change over time. This assumption has no mathematical basis, but once I assume it, I can predict so many properties of my system. It is rather akin to math itself – the axioms have no real reason for being true, but once I assume them there is a whole world of knowledge waiting to be discovered. This defining feature of math appears time and again in science – how can one then say that math is meaningless?
