With increasing interconnectivity in a shrinking global village, the world today
is fraught with conflicts that extend beyond a country’s borders, characterised
by an unnerving sense of uncertainty and volatility. With the threat of religious
fundamentalism, growing social inequality in the aftermath of rapid globalisation
and international disputes abounding across the globe, it appears as though
governments are increasingly losing influence and power in managing the
conflicts of today. This is perhaps evident in the growing unhappiness of
civilians with their incumbent rulers, leading to a spate of protests and even
uprisings in extreme cases. However, to say that governments are powerless
to deal with the conflicts of today would be to be too nihilistic a view, and
suggests that people or other organisations instead should be held accountable
to deal with the conflicts of today. Certainly, while conflicts may seem to
overheat at times, it is undeniable that governments possess the resources,
influence and legitimacy to tackle the problems of today. Hence, although some
conflicts may be beyond the reach of governments, most are still within the
power of the governments to manage and control.
Indeed governments may seem to be powerless in the face of conflicts that
cannot be controlled within their own borders, particularly ideological threats
that plant seeds of discord within and beyond the country. The rise of religious
extremism and the encroaching threat of terrorism in countries all over the
world are testament to the transnational nature of conflicts today. Such threats
can hardly be confined to a particular group or nation, and the very fact that it
is faceless makes it almost impossible for governments to tackle the problem.
The rise of ISIS, for example, was completely unanticipated, where the Islamic
militia swept through Syria and captured great swathes of land within hours. In
addition, the media and propaganda branch of ISIS simultaneously began a
hashtag movement #AlleyesonISIS, featuring atrocities committed by the
jihadist fighters so as to instil fear and a sense of inevitability among the people.
Certainly ISIS’s effective use of social media platform to recruit potential
jihadists from all around the world and to spread the utopian vision of an Islamic caliphate has rendered governments powerless in controlling the
spread of terrorism. Despite
increased security measures being implemented,
the unpredictable nature of terrorist and lone wolf attacks often make such
efforts ineffective or even futile. In the face of religious zeal and fervour,
governments are unable to wield decisive and conclusive power for fear the
proactive measures may add fuel to the fire, leading to more atrocities and
resulting in a stronger backlash. Thus, in the face of borderless and ideological
conflicts, governments may seem to be powerless in controlling the spread of
extremism and in effectively protecting their citizens.However, while governments are limited in their power to curb ideological
conflicts within their borders, the power of international and intergovernmental
efforts holds much more promise and potential. The formation
of international peacekeeping organisations such as the United Nations (UN)
offers the possibility of tackling the threat of terrorism on a war footing, with
the expertise and cooperation of nations all around the world. The UN
Security Council recently announced a unanimous agreement by all its nations
to eliminate terrorism, giving hope to many who have suffered the atrocities of
extremist groups. The US, Russia and several countries have joined arms in
conducting air raids and drone strikes in the Middle East, destroying vast
swathes if terrorist territory as well as their oil source from which they fund
their attacks and the organisation itself. The interconnected nature of
surveillance technologies across the globe has allowed governments to track
movements of potential terrorists, and even predict their attacks using highly
sophisticated software so as to prevent them from happening. The sharing of
resources and information between governments has granted them power to
eradicate threats and nip them in the bud before any harm can be inflicted. The
communication and ties between countries help to build rapport and support,
providing aid and reinforcements to weaker countries when required. Thus it
is evident that despite the fact that individual governments may be powerless
to control such a far-reaching and uncontrollable conflict, the cooperation and
unity of governments across the world accrues great power and influence in
tackling such problems. In addition, it is undeniable that governments have the resources and executive
power to deal with conflicts arising from social inequalities. Especially in
developed countries, where globalisation has brought about seemingly stratospheric economic progress, the increasing unhappiness of the people due
to unequal social mobility and
economic opportunities has become a pressing
concern for governments. Coupled with the threat of global ‘Silver Tsunami’
due to increasing ageing population, governments are often hard-pressed for
solutions to manage the conflicting needs of the people. Yet they are certainly
far from powerless in coping with such conflicts, with the ability to allocate
resources effectively, and providing opportunities for the vulnerable in society.
This is evident in the welfare and subsidy schemes implemented by
governments so as to give the poor in society a leg-up and allow them to attain
a decent standard of living. For example, the Singapore government introduced
heavily subsidised pre-schools run by the Ministry of Education so as to allow
the lower-income families to send their children to pre-school without having
to pay exorbitant fees. The Obamacare scheme in the US was also praised for
its efforts to provide access to affordable healthcare to the poor and
vulnerable in society. When the housing market gets overheated, the Singapore
government readily steps in to cool housing prices to ensure that housing
remains affordable. Such efforts on the part of governments have proven
effective in alleviating the socioeconomic tensions within society, preventing
unhappiness from brewing and fomenting discord among the people. By
constantly keeping in touch with the citizens, and judiciously distributing
resources according to the needs of the people, it is unlikely that governments
are powerless to deal with the conflicts arising from inequality today.Furthermore governments have the legislative power to influence and shape
the psyche of their people, hence allowing them to manage the conflicts of
today effectively. Besides implementing laws to curb incendiary behaviours,
governments also have the soft power to nudge people into having greater
civic-consciousness. The conflicts of today are the products of technological
boom as well as rise in industrialism, ranging from online anti-social behaviours
to environmental destruction. Across the range of conflicts, governments have
shown the power to enforce social norms and protect social harmony through
the implementation of laws. For example, the Singapore government’s move to
criminalise cyber-bullying and hacking seeks to abolish online anti-social
behaviours and to promote a safe and secure environment for web users.
Conflicts arising from cyber-bullying are thus clamped down on harshly,
eradicating such provocative and divisive events from repeating. Such laws aim to emphasise the government’s stand on certain issues that may destabilise or
threaten the harmony of society, hence serving as a warning to potential
offenders. The imposition of
fines or even jail sentences on individuals or
corporations who do not
comply with acceptable standards, such as
mistreating their workers or compromising the quality of their products which
result in great unrest and unhappiness among the populace, are also measures
to penalise and deter. Thus, the conflicts of today, while numerous, are still
within the power of the governments, who have the legitimacy and right to
enforce laws and ensure moral standards are upheld.
Certainly, one must also consider the strength of the government when
assessing its power to deal with the conflicts of today. To be able to deal with
greater conflicts and concerns of the people, the government itself must be
competent and efficient. The amount of power the government possesses
largely depends on the effectiveness of the ruler as well as the institutions and
other agencies put in place to ensure transparency, efficiency and
incorruptibility. 3Thus it would be too sweeping a generalisation to comment
on whether governments are powerless or not in dealing with the conflicts of
today, as governance often encompasses the unique cultural and political
context of the country, as well as the competency and the nature of its leader.
Nonetheless, given the pressure of the international community, most
governments have the power to deal with the conflicts of today.
In conclusion, governments certainly wield power and control over most
of the conflicts in today’s world. Though the nature of some of these conflicts
may limit the amount of power governments have at times, the promise of
international cooperation and collaboration effectively grant hope to
governments all over the world in at least managing the effects of such conflicts.