In addition, in countries that are multi-cultural and diverse, with a significant proportion of foreigners contributing to the progress of the nation, the government cannot merely place the needs of locals before all else, as their actions may result in a gulf between locals and these foreigners, creating a polarised society. For example, Singapore is a small country with limited manpower given its ageing population and low birth rates, hence there is a great reliance on foreign talent to contribute to Singapore’s economic growth. The pro-immigrant policies and influx of foreigners has resulted in social problems such as cultural differences and a strain on public services, resulting in a rise of xenophobic sentiments as seen in the 2013 Population White Paper protest. 

However, under certain circumstances, especially if it concerns sensitive issues like national security, the government and political leaders may ignore public opinion for the greater good of the nation. Public opinion may be powerful but is not always the best opinion or path that political leaders can take. For instance, the Internal Security Act (ISA) in Singapore has been criticised on many fronts as being too authoritative and stripping the individual of his freedom. Yet, one needs to consider the vulnerability of Singapore to external as well as internal threats. The ISA is necessary to safeguard the people from harm and prevent the tendrils of discord from taking root and growing in society, especially in a multicultural one like Singapore. This was evident in the 2004 arrests of suspected Islamic militants who were allegedly working for Al-Qaeda's Southeast Asian affiliate, Jemaah Islamiyah (JI). This has prevented a large amount of damage being done to society because the Act allows internal security forces to detain, without trial, any individual suspected of being subversive in nature or posing a security threat to Singapore indefinitely. If public opinion were to be followed, then we would have to forego this Act and, possibly, our strong security for the people. This may do more harm than good in the future. Thus, it is permissible for political leaders to ignore the public opinion when it comes to issues pertaining to sensitive and top-priority matters like national security, so as to ensure the greater good for the people. 

In conclusion, it is overall unsuitable for political leaders to ignore public opinion because doing so may worsen an already fragile social fabric, thus causing severe negative repercussions. Also, failing to heed the sentiments may result in the failure of the government in redressing the issues of the people, the very purpose for which it was elected for. Nonetheless, critical matters like national security must be handled with care and caution. In this regard, political leaders may ignore their people's views so as to secure a better future for the nation. This is a complex issue with no clear guidelines. Hence, political leaders must balance both public opinion and the interests of the nation and according to these parameters, act in the most appropriate manner that puts the country and citizens' interests as top-priority.
