First and foremost, it must be conceded that science and technology has improved our lives in ways beyond what we would have thought was humanly possible. Where in pre-historic days we faced hunger and starvation unless wehunt or gather enough food, our study of science has allowed us to successfully domesticate animals and grow crops sustainably to effectively satisfy our basic need for food in a convenient and safe manner. Ventures into medical technology have also helped us extend our life expectancy by decades, an have progressed to the point where we are able to eradicate diseases, like the smallpox virus, completely,whereas a hundred years ago, people of themedieval age were susceptible to disfigurement and death by the virus. In more contemporary terms, even though scientists have not found an absolute cure to cancer yet, they have been able to develop treatments for previously deemed fatal forms of brain cancers, saving lives that would otherwise be doomed to a fatal end. Indeed, scientific advancement is undeniably a powerfulforce that propels tremendous improvements to our quality of life. This is made possible by the methodical and logical process of the scientific method, that allows us to identify the root causes of problems and effectively target them. As science allows us to deepen our understanding of the workings of the world in a highly logical and systematic manner, we are able to pinpoint underlying issues and correct what have gone wrong. For instance, the madcow disease that struck livestock and people who consumed the diseased cows remained rampant in its initial stages as people were unable to identify the vector of transmission. Without a clear understanding of the problem, people were helpless to prevent the spread of the disease. Through scientific research, the culprit was identified to be prions, and with that, doctors were able to provide a proper diagnosis and contain the spread of the virus. The ability of science to facilitate problem solving in this manner makes it undeniably one of the biggest forces for change and solving our problems.

Science and technology also seems promising in solving our problems despite some of its creations leading to environmental and health problems as it seemingly provides solutions to the problems it has caused. The golden age of scientific advancements in the 1920s that spanned for decades led to the invention and subsequent widespread use of machines such as fuel-driven cars and machinery for mass manufacturing. This propelled transportation to the next level and sated our desire for material goods. Years later, we now feel its detrimental effects: high carbon emissions from an overpopulation of cars as well as from a booming manufacturing industry that boasted rows of factories dutifully puffing out greenhouse gases. This has led to a rapid rise in global average temperatures, a phenomenon known as global warming. In China, where the manufacturing industry is still thriving, levels of smog have risen so high that in city areas like Beijing, doctors have seen a significant rise in lung cancer cases. Yet, all is not lost, for green technology is rising in popularity and promises to reverse the damage done. Many green innovations have emerged such as Tesla’s electric cars, that guarantees zero carbon foot print. Not only that, solar and hydroelectric power are all alternative sources of energy that have shown tangible potential to be able to replace environmentally detrimental practices of using fuel energy. In this way, even though scientific advancements have created new problems in its place, there seems to be still a glimmer of hope that science and technology can be the answer to our problems.

Yet, one alarming trend we see is that many of such innovations do not end up being actively utilised to solve the problems they claim to solve. Hence the ideal that science and technology can singlehandedly solve our problems border on delusion, as many other human factors come into play for it to effectively solve the problems we face. For instance, the aforementionedsources of renewable energy have shown the promise of entirely replacing our current sources of petroleum oil, natural gas and coal. Yet, bureaucracies and power struggles have impeded the implementation of such  solutions: oil remains a valuable trade commodity and the OPEC participant countries continues to ensure that it is so. Furthermore, the US has also recently discovered new shale oil fields that sent oil prices further tumbling down. With oil prices remaining low, it is hard for the relevant industries to turn to greener renewable energy as they may lose their competitiveness by incurring higher cost. If we remain blind to other such limiting factors and do not target them, we will only end up developing more solutions, that sometimes lead to more problems, without ever solving the issue in question. Since the development of hydroelectric power, more dangerous sources of energy like nuclear energy have been developed, which brings with it the threat of radiation poisoning as a trade-off for zero pollution. Hence, it would be myopic to suggest that science and technology can be the solution to problems when there is a multitude of other factors that need to be addressed.	
