Furthermore, it is also useful in allowing for the voice of minority groups in societies to be heard. For example, in the United States, the democratic structure made it possible for the people's choice to be respected, allowing for the successful election of Mr Barack Obama as America's first black President. Thus, it can be seen that democracy, in being able to level the playing field for the previously marginalized, to represent and consider the interests of the minorities, and to represent the votes and voices of the people, remains the most optimal and preferred form of government in today's world. 

However, it can be argued that democracy is not the best form of government, as the people do not always elect the best, or most effective representatives. In today's world, the electorate is increasingly voting for a radical change, and these sentiments often do not take into consideration the competencies of the candidates. For example, in the ongoing Presidential Elections in the United States (US), real estate mogul, Donald Trump, is leading the polls in being the Republicans Party's candidate for presidency. This is despite Trump not having any previous experience in politics. He has also made racist and Islamophobic promises should he be elected as President, such as to erect a wall to keep the Mexicans out of the US, and to temporarily bar all Muslims from entering the US. Clearly, Trump appears to be highly incompetent, Islamophobic, and a racist. In no way is he suitable to be the President of the world's most powerful country. However, Americans are still showing their support for him through their votes as he represents a radical change from the kind of political leaders that the US has seen. As reported by the American media, this may be because Americans are jaded from years of government inefficiencies in tackling budget deficits and the rising number of immigrants in the us. As such, while democracy gives people the right to vote, the people may not be fully rational and vote for capable leaders. Such a trend, in which the electorate votes on popular sentiment and not on rational thinking, does not only happen in America. In Britain, Jeremy Corbyn has emerged as Labour Party's candidate for the Prime Minister after internal voting was opened to all party members, despite Corbyn not having had any form of political experience. in France, Marine Le Pen is leading in popular polls for the Presidential elections to be held in 2017, after promising that she will tackle immigration issues by closing off French borders, a promise that is highly reactive and radical, aimed at gaining the popular vote. Evidently, in today's world, the electorate is increasingly influenced by radical leaders playing on the emotional fears and concerns of the electorate. As such, their votes may not be rational and may instead spell doom for the country. Hence, in view of such a global trend of irrational voters, democracy may not be the best system as the people increasingly show that they are unable to rationally elect competent leaders. 

Yet, democracy remains the most ideal political system as authoritarian systems centralise power, resulting in widespread nepotism, cronyism and corruption. For example, in China, businesses often have to bribe officials to start up operations, causing lax regulations as government officials become corrupted. This results in the people not being able to trust the government to represent their needs, welfare, and voices, especially when lax regulations end up compromising the well-being and safety of the society. For example, the2010 milk powder scandal in China whereby melamine was found in baby's milk powder resulted in the deaths of many infants who consumed the milk, This incident was the result of corruption and lax regulations, and hence the government is seen to be no longer capable of being the voice and caretaker of the people. Authoritarian systems also often suppress individual rights such as freedom of speech and expression. For example, in 2016, four booksellers in Hong Kong disappeared mysteriously after selling and distributing books containing anti-Chinese government sentiments. These disappearances have been linked to the Chinese government's attempts to suppress subversive views in Hong Kong, amidst increasing unhappiness at the two-countries-one-system rule, as well as calls for Hong Kong's independence in recent years. The suppression of freedom of speech and expression is in stark contrast to countries adopting the democratic form of government, in which freedom of speech and expression is a protected right. For example, in the US, not only are publications and comments that are anti-government allowed to be published, rallies and protests are also allowed to be staged. Thus, it can be seen that the alternative to democracy is not ideal for the people in today's world as the people lose confidence in these corrupted governments. Furthermore, such authoritarian governments often suppress personal liberties, which, in today's world, are seen as rights entitled to the people. Thus, the people have voiced their rejection of centralized and authoritarian rule. For example, in Hong Kong, the Occupy Central movement in 2014 was led by students from the local universities to protest against the Chinese government's reluctance to allow Hong Kong to hold fair elections. In view of these anti-authoritarian protests, it is clear that democracy remains the favoured form of government over authoritarian systems. 
