However, such a method of debate and discussion may sometimes prove to be inconclusive due to the very different views held by different parties, leading some to question the actual effectiveness of democracy. One example is Thailand, where the military junta took over the civilian government due to the latter's indecisiveness and inefficacy. However, there have been protests after the takeover, demanding the return to a civilian government, but with a better ruler. The citizens ultimately still crave for their voices to be heard in government, on top of escaping the oppressiveness which so often comes with military rule. This further proves that a democratic government is the one which is truly suited for today's world. Admittedly, democracies often fail short as they place immense power in the hands of the common people who may be less than informed about foreign and domestic policy. This may result in political figures or parties being elected into office simply because of their populist stance, which may not be in the country's best interest. Some may also win the votes of people through their charisma, although they may not be the most capable or non-corrupt candidate. This was the case when the Philippines elected the charismatic former film-star Joseph Estrada as their President in 1998. He was eventually found to have stolen $80 million from the government. However, democracy is still the superior form of governance as it pacifies the increasingly educated public who want their right to vote to be preserved. Thus, this necessitates a free media, which will keep the electorate fully informed of the profiles of the election candidates, and remind them of the power each vote possesses. 

Even as the arguments against democracy remain compelling, they fall short as they remain incognisant of the principles of governance, and the impact that democracies have on the world. The limitations of democracies, be it the creation of instability or the enactment of populist policies, are being addressed by an increasingly educated public and the implementation of measures to curb such actions, such as longer election cycles. More and more countries are moving towards democratic systems of government, like Saudi Arabia, which recently introduced municipal elections in 2014. The democratisation of autocracies and authoritarian regimes corroborates the positive impact democratic government brings, and despite current threats to the world's security, democracy as a method of government remains to be the best form of government, not just in today's world, but of all time.

In conclusion, while an autocratic government often creates a more stable economy and forms a government with fewer dissenting views, the people's ultimate wish is to have their voices heard. Furthermore, a democratic government is able to address many such inherent issues in today's world, such as an unstable political climate and a declining global economy. These, together with democracy's ability to allow for the voices of the people to be heard, present democracy as the best form of government in today's world.
