However, there is also credit to the argument that governments have moral responsibilities to provide humanitarian assistance to foreigners fleeing political persecution in their home countries. As such, the needs of the foreigners are sometimes being placed above the needs of the locals. For example, Syrian refugees fleeing the ongoing political crisis in Syria are seeking refuge in the European continent. There is a moral obligation for European governments to provide sufficient humanitarian assistance to these refugees seeking asylum as deporting them could potentially result in deaths. By closing off their borders to these refugees, the refugees are forced to find pathways to other countries, making the journey in overcrowded flimsy boats that often capsize in choppy seas. As of date, more than 3700 migrants have drowned in capsizing incidents. Some may argue that by accepting these refugees, a considerable amount of strain is placed upon the social welfare system of host countries, who now have to provide food, accommodation and other needs of these foreigners. This may be unfair for locals, who are paying taxes to support such systems. The increasing discontent towards the migrants has manifested in European-wide movements campaigning against accepting the refugees. To mitigate social unrest, governments need to work together to ensure proportional distribution of the incoming refugees. 

That being said, the social welfare of locals needs to be addressed and prioritised over the needs of foreigners who are expatriates or economic migrants. As countries have finite resources, a government has to prioritise the needs of locals over that of foreigners. For example, in Singapore, locals receive extensive healthcare subsidies in the form of Medisave and other related schemes that provide subsidised hospital stays. This ensures that in view of rising demand for our first-class healthcare services from around the world, healthcare remains affordable and accessible for locals in Singapore. Furthermore, priority is given to local born children to enrol in heavily subsidized government schools to ensure that local children are able to attend school at affordable rates, despite the increase in expatriate families. This is due to limited spaces in our local schools, and to ensure that locals are still able to have a space, priority is given to locals through staggered enrolment schemes for primary one enrolment. If these welfare measures are not put in place by the government, such services may no longer be affordable or accessible to locals as the latter may not be able to pay the premium prices that foreigners are willing to pay for the high quality of healthcare and education that the country is able to offer. Hence, to prevent locals from being priced out of social welfare services by wealthier incoming foreigners, the government needs to protect the welfare needs of the locals and prioritise such interests over that of foreigners. 

In conclusion, the government should continuously place the needs of locals above the needs of foreigners. This is because locals remain invested and committed to the country, and will weather through the ups and downs a country faces. The environment they live in must be sustainable and continue to be so for future generations. The economic needs and social welfare interests of locals have to be addressed adequately to ensure that locals are not disadvantaged by the influx of foreigners. At the same time, governments may sometimes have to sacrifice the welfare of locals to fulfil a moral obligation to provide humanitarian assistance to refugees who would otherwise face political persecutions back home. As such, governments need to carefully weigh their policy decisions, and continue to prioritise the needs of locals as much as they can. Locals have a part to play by being open to integrating foreigners who are staying on for the longer term into their communities and be more open-minded in accepting differences. International cooperation is also important in ensuring that the responsibility for global crises such as the Middle East refugee crisis do not fall upon one or a small group of countries who may be overwhelmed by the influx. Larger and richer countries would then need to step up to fulfill their global and moral responsbilities to shoulder the burden. 
