Critics argue that such a system of balance and power is inefficient. They argue that autocracy and one-party state rule are better than true democracy because they are more efficient in running a country, First, they argue that autocratic rulers make right rather than popular decisions. Second, they argue that autocratic governments are more concerned with long-term instead of short-term interests. Third, they argue that in an emergency, democracies would take far too long to resolve crises, because each action has to be agreed by all three branches of government. Their arguments are not unfounded. Singapore's and China's extraordinary economic success with double-digit growths in GDP at their peaks might not have been possible if their governments changed every term. Furthermore, a fully democratic government in China might not have had the courage to implement the one-child policy, and in Singapore, the CPF system, both of which, while unpopular, have long term benefits to social welfare and the economy. Today, Xi Jinping's crackdown on corruption would not have been undertaken on such a scale in a democratic nation. It draws parallels to Brazil, where a corruption scandal involving oil giant, Petrobras and politicians has plagued the nation. Opposing parties are angry at one another, and little progress has been achieved in recent years. 

The benefits that critics of democracy espoused to autocracy only apply, however, to benevolent dictatorship. The biggest problem of autocracy is the lack of guarantee that the next ruler would similarly have the nation's best interests in mind. There would be no checks and balances on his power. And no ballot box to keep him on his toes. In communist Russia, which was essentially an autocracy, we saw how Stalin took power and through his purges and war crimes eventually weakened his nation, making it worse than during Lenin's rule. 

In today's globalised world, where human rights abuses are shared with the rest of the world, where the populace can learn about the rest of the world through the Internet, any other forms of government except democracy can no longer exist in the long-term. Even China has since been liberalised., first through market reforms, and now by listening to its people more. Hence, democracy is the best form of government in today's world because it takes care of its people best through protection of human rights and liberty. These are safeguarded by checks and balances on power and an assurance of accountability and responsibility to the populace through elections. The gaining of traction for extremist parties should not be blamed on democracy itself. Rather, it should be blamed on a failure to educate the populace and as importantly, the dismissal by establishment parties of deep-rooted anger about issues such as income inequality and the influx of immigrants. Such anger has been the catalyst of racism, hatred and extremism. Democracies would learn well from multi-cultural Switzerland where referendums on discriminative or short-sighted policies are seldom passed despite their direct democracy system which encourages many referendums. It would thus be wise that we improve upon our policies to support democracies, instead of arguing against it. It is therefore true, to a very large extent that democracy is the best form of government in today's world.
