In democracies, human rights and liberty are more protected because the ballot box ensures accountability and responsibility to the populace. Human rights and liberty are extremely important because they ensure the protection of the citizens of a state, and give them the freedom to pursue whatever is in their best interests. Elections every four to five years serve as a referendum on government policies: whether their policies have sufficiently protected the rights of the people and whether the people have been well taken care of since the last election. Democracy expands the government's concern from doing whatever it takes to maintain its grip on power to taking care of the majority of the population's interests. 

Democracies also provide checks and balances on unfettered power to prevent a power-hungry dictator from destroying his country. Most democracies have three branches of government: Judiciary, Executive and Legislative. The courts, parliaments, and the cabinet help safeguard the country by checking on the duties of each other and have the power to restrict one another's capability. In the US, for example, the President has the power to veto Congress, Congress has the power to impeach the President, and the Supreme Court has the power to overturn the President's executive orders. All these have happened many times even in the short span of the last 4 years of the Obama administration and ensured that laws passed and actions taken do not violate the constitution, and represent the nation's interests best. 

In conclusion, while democracy may not be ideal as it does have its shortcomings, such as its vulnerability to the irrational choices of the electorate, it still remains the best form of government. Such a viewpoint, however, may not be apt in analysing the value of Singapore's history, as it attempts to conflate a perceived absence of similarities between our past and present with the belief that our past is irrelevant. This does not always hold true, as it is possible for us to still draw parallels between seemingly disparate events that happened decades ago in spite of the constantly changing socio-economic climate. For example, while one may feel that studying Communism is largely irrelevant to modern Singapore, the methods the government used to tackle them in the past remain pertinent in dealing with another threat of equal magnitude: terrorism. Both have the expressed aim of destabilising a nation through violent means to establish a new government with a radical ideology. Just as the Communists incited their followers towards sectarian strife, such as in the Hock Lee Bus Riots, modern-day religious terrorists continue to incite aggression against countries like Singapore to establish religious dominance in Asia. By teaching this to our youths, we can deliver a stark reminder that peace should not be taken for granted. This aims to mould youths into concerned citizens who have a strong sense of civic responsibility and take an active role in bettering the lives of others around them Such a goal is achieved by ensuring that students remain continually mentally prepared for such future scenarios. Another example is the importance of educating youth on the foundations of the multi-cultural society that Singapore is built up upon. With the clamour against the Population. White Paper, it is necessary for us to continually remember that Singapore was built through welcoming immigrants with open arms. It is through these past waves of a migrants from India, China, etc., that Singapore had the necessary talent and labour to build herself up from. As such, it is vital to introduce concepts of racial harmony and meritocracy to our youths to justify the nothing. importance of going beyond tolerance and towards appreciation, in their interactions with new immigrants. Hence, while a one-on-one comparison is admittedly difficult at times, many parallels can still be drawn from past events to teach the workforce of tomorrow. 