With the global economy facing an eminent downturn, there is an ever-pressing need today for credible leaders, who are tested and proven, to stay in power — something a democratic government can Provide. Citizens are often the best judges of the effects of the changes made by their government. They are after all the beneficiaries of most if not all, of the country's policies, both foreign and domestic. Handing the electorate the power to choose their leader adds pressure on the government to live up to their expectations or be voted out come the next round of elections. For example, the ousting of Tony Abbott in September 2015 saw Australia ushering in her fourth Prime Minister in 2 years — Malcolm Turnbull — who following promised a more consultative government and the sweeping out of traditional conservatives from the Cabinet Abbott's dismal attempts to revitalise Australia's economy. This stringent selection and ousting of leaders ensures that only those who truly deserve to lead the country can do so. 

It may be argued that an authoritarian government, such as China, provides greater stability for the economy to grow as the government has a greater control over its economy and people by harshly clamping down on dissent. While this may have undeniably promoted the growth of China's economy, as evidenced by sustained double-digit growth rates up until 2010, and increased China's standing as it boasts the most reserves a country has in the world, this often results in negative consequences which cannot be eliminated while still under this form of government. In a bid to appear more attractive to foreign investors, China often compromises on the wages of workers and does not strictly adhere to the regulations on the working conditions of factories. Granted, such practices may occur in democratic countries like India and Indonesia. However, awareness of such malpractices and the subsequent rectification are often too belated, especially in communist countries like China. Attempts by the marginalised citizens to voice their concerns are often muted by government officials who scour the internet for any anti-government sentiments. Admittedly, there may be economic growth, but this is often at the expense of citizens who are silenced by an authoritative government. 

In addition, as terrorist groups such as ISIS and Boko Haram gain more prominence and the global political climate becomes ever more unstable, it is crucial to have a form of government with a proper judiciary system and checks and balances, to ensure that no one group in society feels marginalised. In democratic governments, there are often debates held in court before a bill. Such stringent measures ensure that the enacted law are absolutely necessary and does not put anyone at a disadvantage. In Singapore, Group Representation Constituencies (GRCs) require at least one member to be from a minority race to ensure that the rights of minority groups are upheld and their concerns expressed. In the USA, some politicians may insist on anti-Muslim laws, such as the temporary banning of entry of Muslims into the country due to a rise of Islamic radicalism. However, checks and balances ensure that such laws which discriminate against a particular group of people are not passed in court, and no unnecessary damage is done to the social fabric of a country. 
