In some cases, the government representing its people could be so inept in its duty, that it is unceremoniously booted out of office entirely. Prior to 2001, Turkey was ruled by a coalition of different political parties, with many differing aims and views on various matters of government. Policies were half-baked and ill-executed, and much money was wasted on inefficient and overly-bureaucratic public bodies. The Turkish people became so disillusioned and upset about the state of affairs in the country that in the 2001 elections, they proceeded to boot every sitting member of Parliament from the governing coalition, and replace them with politicians who had no experience in government, but promised to bring about radical change. More recently, in the Irish general election in February 2016, the Labour Party, who was in coalition with Fine Gael, lost almost blue-collared voters, particularly as it ceded much of its power and influence to its conservative partner in government support bled to Sinn Fein and other anti-austerity parties, who promised to represent the views of the working-class voters. From these examples, it can be observed that democratic systems are fundamental in ensuring accountable governments which will abide by their promises and serve the people, thus proving once again why democracies are the best form of government in today's world. 

Admittedly, in recent years, we have seen the unprecedented success of authoritarian regimes, leading to many anti-democracy advocates shunning and denouncing prevailing perceptions of democracy as anachronistic and outdated. They claim that democracy brings about instability in government; rapid, successive changes in government leads to discontinuation of policies and results in existing measures being reversed, if not entirely eradicated. Polarised legislatures and minority governments might lead to government gridlock and watered-down government policies, causing responses to exigent matters to either be delayed or inadequate in scope. The most infamous instance of this which comes to mind would be the government shutdown in the United States in September of 2013. The bicameral legislature, composed of the Senate and House of Representatives, were each controlled by two separate political parties with diametrically opposed ideologies - the Democrats and the Republicans respectively. When it came to passing a crucial government budget with healthcare reforms embedded within it, the two parties disagreed vehemently and failed to come to a compromise. The failure to pass the budget bill by the allocated deadline led to a "government shutdown", whereby all public services, excluding essential ones like the police or the military, ceased to operate for two weeks. This had an adverse impact on ordinary citizens' lives, as waste went uncollected and piled up on the streets, post offices and libraries were shuttered, mail was undelivered and schools were closed. The resulting damage on the public by the failure of two democratically elected political parties was enormous, and has happened many times before, the worst in 1998 when such a shutdown lasted for eight complete months, Also, with a volatile economy and terrorist threats like the Islamic State on the horizon, the instability and inefficiency caused by democracies is argued by critics to disprove the notion that democracies are in fact the best form of governance in today's world. 

Detractors also claim that democracies are populist in nature, hence elected government officials and lawmakers will do what is popular but not necessarily right. In desperate bids to win re-election and retain their powers, governments often play to the whims and fancies of the voters, even if the public is wrong on substantive issues. The public mood could become drastically altered should a significant event occur, resulting in a "herd mentality" where a certain policy is perpetuated by the public without consideration of the negative effects it might entail. In the aftermath of the September 11 attacks in the United States, public opinion shifted drastically in favour of the United States militarily intervening in Iraq and toppling the then-ruler, Saddam Hussein. The elected government, influenced by the overwhelming public support, decided to enter Iraq in 2003, launching an all-out offensive on the Iraqi government and toppling Saddam Hussein, while installing a pro-American government in his place. The fallout, though not immediate, was clearly seen in the years which followed, whereby insurgent militant groups seized control of various parts of Iraq and decimated the region, producing chaos and leaving an indelible stain on the United States' foreign policy doctrine. Such reckless endeavours are said to be hardly seen in non-democracies, like China. The Communist Party of China often ignores public sentiment when executing its policies, instead choosing to pursue an aggressive economic plan to revitalise the Chinese economy. Villages and towns were demolished to make way for mile-high skyscrapers and large factories, while workers' rights were compromised to attract foreign companies into the nation. The result is omnipresent and ubiquitous in China, as its rapid economic growth has lifted millions out of poverty, and brought about immense Prosperity to the Chinese society as a whole. Should China have been a democracy, the continuation of Policies which precipitated this "economic miracle" would not have existed, as officials may yield to public pressure, failing to deliver actual reforms. all of its Parliamentary seats as the Party was believed to have abandoned its core constituency of working-class.
