With the outbreak of the Cold War and the preceding World War II in 1945, democracy and communism have constantly been in competition to determine which form of government is superior to the other. However, with the fall of the world's leading communist country — the Soviet Union — and the consequent victory of the United States of America, the proud poster boy of democracy, it seems like democracy has won. Democracy's victory is still carried on today with the majority of countries adopting this form of government which heeds the voices of their people. It is not difficult to see why democracy is the best form of government in today's world, where citizens, especially the youth, are becoming more active in politics and want their voices to be heard; where the global economy is facing an eminent crisis and there is a need for credible Leaders to remain in power; where there is an ever more unstable global political climate, and there is a greater need to ensure no one is marginalised through checks and balances.
With the advent of the Information Age and the World Wide Web, citizens are, ever more so than before, exposed to the happenings of its country and the world beyond. They increasingly want their voices to be heard by the government. The freedom of expression present in democracies would allow the citizens to voice their concerns without the fear of being clamped down by the government and this gives them an opportunity to be more involved in politics. This would include elections which accord citizens with the right to decide who will govern them, Through the analysis of the results of elections, governments are also more aware of the concerns of their people and are better able to address them. In 2011, the sentiment of Singaporeans was one of dissatisfaction with the state for insisting on its rightist, non-welfare stance. The voices of Singaporeans were undeniably heard through their votes, with the ruling party securing only 60.1% of the popular vote, the lowest since the country's birth. This served to "shock" the government into implementing more leftist policies such as the Pioneer Generation Package, and resolving pressing issues from the 2011 elections such as the inadequate supply of public housing. These rectifications undoubtedly gave rise to the ruling party's landslide victory in 2015 with 69.9% of the popular vote. A democratic government's holding of free elections and preservation of the universal right to free speech allows its citizens to play a more active role in politics and co-create their future with the government. 

On the other hand, should a country persist in its authoritarian ways, the result may only be chaos, The root of the 5-year long, still ongoing Syrian Civil War which has claimed 250,000 lives, is the Syrians' outrage at the autocratic government under Bashar al-Assad, and their cries for democracy. Under Assad's regime, citizens were unable to voice their dissatisfaction as peaceful protests for democracy were shut down violently, with security forces opening fire at the protestors. The inability of the government to protect the freedom and rights of its people had led to rebel groups taking up arms out of desperation in order to overthrow the regime, and had also contributed to the rise of the Islamic State, arguably the world's number one enemy, Under an autocratic regime like Assad's, citizens suffer, as they are unable to surface their views, and are subjected to unwarranted violence when they attempt to do so. A democratic government is thus the best form of government as it protects the individual's right to free speech. 
