In today's world, democracy remains the dominant form of government, with many big players, such as the United States of America, and even formerly socialist countries such as Yugoslavia and Hungary adopting democracy as their choice of government. Democracy is characterized by promises of freedoms such as the freedom of speech and assembly; regular, free and fair elections, and a system of check and balances. The people are given the power to elect their representatives in parliament representatives, having been elected by universal suffrage, owe it to the electorate to represent their interests and be their voice in the government. Democracy may be the optimal form of government as it gives the people the power to vote in those who they think are capable leaders, and vote out those who underperform. It also provides a fair playing field for leaders who may not otherwise have the chance to be elected under a non-democratic system. However, democracy may not always guarantee that the best leaders are elected, due to the changing social environment and sentiments of the people way. Nevertheless, democracy, while not being the best and most perfect system, remains the optimal form of government in today's world. 

Democracy may be regarded as the optimal form of government in today's world as it gives the people the ability to elect their government, a right that is highly valued in today's society. A trademark of democracy is that people's voices are heard through free and fair elections, in which they are able to exercise their right through voting. As such, people are able to choose who they think are capable leaders and vote these leaders in. At the same time, this means being able to vote incompetent or corrupted leaders out of the government For example, in Singapore, during the 2015 General Elections, the residents of the Punggol East single member constituency voted the incumbent Workers' Party out, This may be due to the displeasure of the residents at the supposed mishandling of funds by the Workers' Party in administrating the Aljunied-Hougang-Punggol East Town Council. As such, the residents voiced their displeasure by exercising their right to vote and choosing to elect Mr Charles Chong, the candidate from the People's Action Party instead. Similarly, in Malaysia, opposition parties are now forming alliances and gathering strength to legally oust the incumbent Prime Minister (PM) Najib Razak from his position. As said by the former Prime Minister Mahathir, the upcoming Malaysian elections will be the only way to legally and rightfully unseat PM Najib after his implication and role in the 1MDB saga, which saw more than $1 billion lost in alleged corruption. Clearly, democracy is seen by many as an optimal way to show the discontent and displeasure at the incompetency and corruption of political leaders. This is because democracy gives the people the power to choose their representatives, and hence, the power to remove these representatives as well. This not only ensures that representatives are made responsible to govern the country in a clean and efficient way, it also ensures a system of checks and balances in the country. 

Furthermore, democracy, in allowing for free competition and participation, also allows for leaders who may be marginalized in society to be elected. In many countries, especially during the 20th century, politics was seen as an arena for men. However, increasingly in today's world, women are seen as equally capable of leading. With a democratic structure in place, women are given an equal chance to le elected as leaders as well. For example, in Germany, Angela Merkel was elected as Germany's first female chancellor, and has gone on to lead Germany, while positioning herself as a decisive and capable leader as issues such as the migrant crisis that Europe currently faces. With democracy, marginalized groups such women are given equal chances at having their leadership recognized. 
