Winston Churchill once said, "'Democracy is the worst form of government except for all those other forms that have been tried from time to time." Amongst his concerns of democracy was the 'tyranny of the majority', where an uneducated majority might vote for populist governments instead of one that truly cared for the people's long term interests. Having won a hard-fought victory against the Axis Powers in World War 2, he was to succumb to the power of the ballot box less than a year later. While one might be tempted to dismiss his view, especially as the world was a very different place in the 1940s, his concerns still ring true in today's world. The rise of the populist far-right and the far-heft across Europe and America has stunned many, leading them to wonder whether democracy is truly the best form of government in today's world, I would argue that it is, both because of the repercussions of autocratic rule and also the natural gravitation towards democratic rule in our modern world. 

The argument against unfettered democracy has been made stronger over the past couple of months with the rise of populist parties spouting xenophobic and racist views. This is indeed one problem of democracy: the tyranny of the majority, that it means is that the majority demographic of a democratic nation would over time, gain power over minority groups as their support alone would guarantee the victory of governments that favour them. These governments, to further gain additional support Worn their main demographic, might discriminate against minority groups in order to give the majority certain privileges. While such populist governments are yet to be elected in significant numbers in the major nations, they are now getting frighteningly close. In France, Marine Le Pen's right-wing National Front has won major state-wide elections and could win the presidential election next year. She has proposed harsher crime laws on minority groups, and wants a major crackdown on immigrants. Such trends can be seen all over Europe: in Sweden and Italy, where poll numbers for populist parties have surged, and in Poland where the xenophobic Law and Justice Party now forms the government. Donald Trump's ascent in the US Republican presidential primaries has been even more alarming. He has threatened to ban all Muslims from the US, build a giant wall along the Mexican border and step up the use of police force in black communities. Their actions are shocking because few would have expected such deep-rooted racism and extreme views to gain so much traction in these bastions of liberty and tolerance. Worse, their surging poll numbers have prodded them to continue doubling down on minorities, 

With that said, the prevalent alternative, autocracy would be much worse, particularly because autocratic governments lack diversity and have already been implementing discriminative policies. In Brunei and Saudi Arabia, Sharia Law, imposed on all citizens, even on non-Muslims, punishes views and actions that go contrary to the Muslim tradition, via stoning or execution in some cases. As such, democracy is the best form of government in today's world because it protects human rights and liberty better than other existing forms of governance. Unlike democratic nations, in autocratic nations, criminal cases go through a rubber-stamp court, without proper judicial independence. 
