Two thousand years since Plato wrote his grand thesis on ideal government, 'The Republic', many countries throughout the world have adopted the system of a democratic government, where elected officials are chosen by the common man. There are varying degrees of democracy, from full direct democracies like Switzerland, to more flawed and quasi-authoritarian ones, like Indonesia. Nonetheless, a common thread of representation of the people runs through all democracies deserving of this moniker. This engenders a pertinent question that has become especially imperative amidst the rise of successful non-democratic regimes: is democracy the most ideal form of government in today's world? As Winston Churchill once mused, democracy has many flaws, but it is indeed the best form of government that we currently have. Even as we see the perils of democracy in an increasingly dangerous and uncertain world, Churchill's words still ring true even to this day. 

A democratic government ensures that people' views are adequately represented in government, thereby allowing the state to respond to the immediate challenges and issues that citizens might face. In today's multifaceted and complex world, a myriad of problems plague governments, from economic issues such as sustaining economic growth and reducing unemployment, to social ones like infrastructure, healthcare and education, and even matters concerning national security. The range of challenges to be addressed is diverse and there is no one panacea to identify and solve them all. In this respect, citizens need to exercise their voice, by electing lawmakers who will address their issues and represent their views. Democratic representation yields effective and positive responses by governments to problems that citizens wish to see solved. In the United Kingdom, arguably the world's oldest democracy, elections are routinely held every four to five years to keep the government attuned to the prevailing political mood of the country. In the most recent elections held in 2015, the Conservative Party won a majority in Parliament on the basis of addressing the most prominent issues which citizens face, including maintaining economic stability and growth, and re-evaluating Britain's place in the European Union. The newly elected government, within its first year in office, kept to its election manifesto by delivering high economic growth and low inflation, and promising to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union, to be held in June of 2016. The steadfast response by a democratically elected government in solving issues which citizens care most about is testament to the enduring success of democracy as the best form of government in this day and age. 

Democracy is also the most ideal form of government in today's world because it ensures that governments are held accountable to the people. With greater distrust of the state by the public in recent decades amidst corruption scandals, democratic governance helps remedy the situation by giving its citizens the power to eject a sitting government and replace it with one more attuned to their needs. Elections are held periodically as a litmus test of public opinion on a government's record while in office. Actions that the government pursue or neglect will be rewarded or punished accordingly by the public, thus acting as an effective 'check-and-balance' to a self-servient or incompetent bureaucracy. 
