People often define good leadership as one that can look after the welfare of its people by meeting their needs and maintaining domestic security in terms of the political, social and economic aspects. It is argued that a strong and popular government always places its domestic needs and welfare above all else, thereby negating the need to take into account the impact on foreigners on a global scale. To a large extent, I feel that a democratic government should consider the needs of its electorate before others since the government has the moral obligation to answer to its population after being elected. By responding to the problems of the masses and shaping policies that are solely aimed at improving the country's welfare, it ensures long term progress since the people, who make up the country, are contented. Therefore, if a government is unable to satisfy its population, and instead, sacrifices the welfare of its people in exchange for foreign or global approval, it may be met with domestic resistance and lose its political mandate. However, it is fallacious to have the view that the needs of locals should always be the top priority of the government as it may compromise on the greater good, culminating in adverse side effects for countries. Furthermore, in countries which have a diverse population and a reliance on foreign talent to contribute to the nation, the government should not compromise the needs of foreigners just to appease the locals as this would lead to a stratified society and even jeopardise the development of the nation. 

A democratically elected government has the moral responsibility to account for the needs of its own people above others as this ensures their welfare and contentment as citizens of the nation, thereby allowing for continual progress when the electorate is supportive of its government's policies. As political leaders are voted into power because of the hope and trust invested in them by the population, it is important that the government fulfils its political promises and considers the needs and development of the people to ensure that there is sustained progress and prosperity within a nation. Governments should be discerning in placing the welfare of its people as top priority, as the inability to satisfy their demands will engender discontent and political opposition. A prime example of how a government have placed the needs of locals before foreigners would be the 2015 European Union (EU) migrant crisis. In the light of the instability and violence within the state of Syria, where the bellicose terrorist group, the Islamic State of Iran and Syria (ISIS) has been battling with the belligerent leader Bashar al-Assad for control over the land, the constant bloodshed and aggression have gravely compromised the welfare of its civilians. This has driven numerous desperate Syrian families to seek refuge and political asylum in its neighbouring EU countries to escape the civil war within their nation. 

The influx of foreigners in numerous EU countries has had considerable social impacts on the locals, such as increased financial burdens to accommodate the larger population. As a result, there was a public outcry and pressure for politicians to limit the influx of migrants and reject the refugees at the countries' borders, Hence, countries such as Hungary shifted their stances to reduce and even stop the inflow of migrants to satisfy its domestic population, effectively lightening their economic burden and containing the negative social impacts brought about by overcrowding. This shows the importance of taking into account the needs of the country and its people, as government policies invariably affect the lives of the people, thus the government should prioritise the needs of the locals in order to ensure domestic stability and continual progress to be made for the country. If helping the refugees comes at the expense of the people's contentment and compromises their standard of living, it would only be natural for the locals to protest against the government's actions, Thus, the government should place the needs of locals before foreigners.

