Throughout the world, beauty pageants have been a long-standing tradition, and the title of Beauty Queen has been a coveted position for many. Women enter these pageants based on their looks and physical beauty, and have only one aim - to win the crown. However, with recent debates on gender equality, the idea of boycotting beauty pageants has become increasingly widespread amongst society. This is because the system of beauty pageants, along with their fame, promotes the objectification of women, an unhealthy body standard and devalues women in general. Thus, to women in today's modern society who refuse to let their worth be determined by societal ideals and standards, beauty pageants seem to take them a step away from achieving an equal social status compared to men. Thus, I believe that beauty pageants are indeed a disgrace to women today. 

Some may argue that beauty pageants empower women and provide greater platforms for women to speak out on social issues like gender equality and racism. This is true in the case of Mrs America 2015, who used her newfound fame to champion equal rights for Hispanic women via social media. Beauty pageants have always had a large following on television, as seen from the much anticipated Miss Universe pageant held annually. Together with the advent of social media, viewership has increased the attention on these pageant girls worldwide. Thus, with a large captive audience, women are able to voice their own opinions and bring attention to certain causes that they wish to advocate. Although this may seem to empower women, the fact that women need to enter and win a pageant in order to advocate equal rights further highlights the challenges faced by women who want their voices to be heard by society, thus showing that they are after all not viewed as equals to men. 

In conclusion, I believe that beauty pageants are a disgrace to women in today's society. Although pageants may seem frivolous and entertaining, the history of beauty pageants correlates to larger social issues such as gender inequality and the enforcement of idealistic social norms on women. Women as a whole should not be confined to such norms and criteria as established by the pageants, but should instead be allowed to carve their own unique pathways to success for society to achieve gender equality as a whole.
