Others may argue that pageants provide a platform for women to express their creativity through the flamboyant costumes worn by pageant girls. In the Miss Universe pageant, each representative walks down the runway to showcase national costumes that are specific to her country's identity and culture. These costumes often showcase unique designs that encapsulate the essence of each country that the person represents, and is a great way to celebrate the rich culture of each country. This platform also allows the women designers to showcase their talents and creativity, thus providing an avenue for artistic expression that highlights the capabilities of women today. 
However, beauty pageants are largely a disgrace to women as they promote the objectification of women and their bodies. To enter the pageant, women must be deemed 'beautiful' by judges who evaluate their looks based on societal notions of beauty. This is done to attract male-dominated audiences, who watch the pageants simply to admire the physical appeal of these women. This degrades women to a large extent, as they are now seen as inherent sexual objects as they parade around in revealing costumes and become subjects of objectification under the male gaze. This is especially severe in patriarchal countries like India, where young girls are sold as brides to cater to the needs of men. Activists advocate the boycotting of pageants in India because they enforce the stereotype that women are meant to serve men and that child brides are a socially acceptable norm. Thus, pageants are a large disgrace to women as it reduces women to mere objects that are sometimes sold and traded amongst men. 

Beauty pageants also promote extremely unhealthy body standards for the average woman in society today. One example is the American swimsuit competitions held annually in the US, where women compete against each other to win the title of the best 'bikini body'. Popular YouTuber Cassey Ho Commented that entering these competitions had caused her to become obsessed with her weight as she subjected herself to mental torture via excessive physical activity and a lack of nutrition. This is not only the Case for pageant competitors, but also for female audiences worldwide. The notion of a perfect body is thin, throughout by the mass media where women's magazines constantly enforce the need to appear h in, and this is highlighted through these pageants where women who have perfectly proportioned bodies are displayed on television. This creates an onslaught of mental and physical illnesses such as depression and anorexia as young girls subject themselves to the same torture in order to achieve the perfect body. Instead of celebrating the individuality of each person, pageants promote competition amongst women and within themselves, to achieve 'ideal' body standards which harms their health. Therefore, such pageants should be considered a disgrace to all women. 

Beauty pageants worldwide also create intangible barriers for women in society today. Beauty pageants usually consist of a few segments, one of which requires the contestant to answer a well thought-out question in under a minute. This, in addition to the contestant's poise and grace whilst walking down a runway, is judged by a panel and each contestant is given a total score to determine the winner. The fact that contestants are faced with unrealistic demands to answer questions within that one minute in order to prove their intelligence creates the invisible criteria for women to be deemed as successful or even smart. These criteria state that women have to be able to complete all the tasks in order to achieve success. This devalues women to a certain set of traits which society would eventually judge them by and the essence of individuality is essentially lost. Men, on the other hand, are able to achieve success in their own way without having to fulfil the criteria, thus proving that pageants are a disgrace as they enforce a uniform set of characteristics and boundaries for women to follow in order to progress in society. 
