Despite such assertions, studying history has been criticized for its ineffectiveness in instilling a sense of belonging due to the dated perspectives that it offers. Moreover, while other countries may have a group that is indigenous to them, Singapore has few who can claim that their ancestors were truly born in Singapore. With many newly naturalised citizens, it may also not be appropriate to educate them in the same manner, as they would view history with different lenses. For instance, how many new citizens are truly able to resonate with the commemoration of historic events such as the racial riots of 1964 through Racial Harmony Day, and the Japanese invasion through Total Defence Day? As there is inevitably a sense of disconnection for them, is it still justifiable to have the prerogative to teach future generations of these past experiences? I believe that a greater significance should be placed on emphasising our cultural diversity in the present than the past, as it is in these times that we are able to learn from one another's cultures. Thus, studying history may not be as significant for our young as once presupposed. 

However, it is still possible to use history to construct a common national identity despite our diverse cultures, as these concepts are not mutually exclusive. In fact, it is through our common heritage that we are exposed to different races and religions, and the diversity from recent immigrants can be used to enhance this great melting pot to achieve "unity in diversity". For instance, China with its 56 ethnic groups, has managed to successfully interweave the backgrounds of these ethnicities into a common narrative, proving that this concept is achievable. This can be applied in Singapore as well. By exposing us to our shared past with the immigrants within our society, we can see that we actually descended from common ancestors and share similar backgrounds. As such, it is still possible for us to be able to cultivate a sense of unity even with our disparate backgrounds and studying history will still hold value as a result. 

Lastly, studying history equips us with the knowledge necessary to be global-minded citizens. As history in Singapore comprises both our past and the pasts of other countries, it would be vital to discuss the merits of the latter, alongside the former. Students in Singapore learn about the important events that shaped the collective history of various regions, and which impacted the lives of many. From the Cuban Missile Crisis to the collapse of the Berlin Wall, students in Singapore are exposed to the same events that those around the world learn about too. This has helped broaden our perspectives beyond our "little red dots to the intricacies of our modern globalised world. By learning about such events, we are also learning about the histories of others around us, which would enable us to understand the present and how countries become what they are and are doing what they do now. This ensures that we are able to avoid any potential "culture shock" in our interactions with those from other societies. As such, history is a critical aspect of the school curriculum that cannot be downplayed in the education of our young in Singapore, especially owing to the numerous pacts and diplomatic ties Singapore has with other nations. In conclusion, while some may claim that history is only remotely linked to us in the modern era, and that it may not succeed in instilling a common sense of belonging, I believe that even in Singapore's diverse and cosmopolitan society it still has value in uniting us, with many parallels we can draw from our Past. Hence, studying history is still significant for our young today.
