History is a subject that has often been decried by many, for it seems to be about resurfacing historical antiquities and relics from a bygone era. The perspectives that students glean from history appear to be mutually exclusive from our contemporary era, with the context seemingly unrelated to everyday bread-and-butter issues. Moreover, the argument that history is vital to instil a sense of belonging may be tenuous, owing to Singapore's cosmopolitan nature and the presence of many naturalised citizens. Nonetheless, as the adage goes, "history repeats itself", which continues to hold true for Singapore, as many lessons learnt from past experiences remain applicable. Furthermore, history has the value of moulding the next generation to be global-minded citizens by exposing them to past international events that are of notable significance. While few can claim to be truly indigenous Singaporeans, studying history still has some merit in constructing a common national identity, allowing for unity in diversity. Hence, upon closer observation, studying history is indeed significant for the young in Singapore. 

Some have criticized the importance of studying history on the basis that the start of Singapore's recorded history is relatively recent, most of which is largely irrelevant to the modern era due to its repeated colonisation. Consequently, studying history entails meaningless memorization of facts and dates which are limited in their applicability. Unlike other nations which boast centuries or even millenniums of rich heritage, Singapore's history genuinely pales in comparison. Particularly, if one were to include Singapore's colonial rule as part of our history, the disparities in the problems faced then and now has resulted in the appearance of two different "Singapores", both diametrically opposite. As such, many continue to hold the view that Singapore's history has little bearing on the young today. For instance., the first problem the British authorities faced was in attracting others to settle in Singapore. With the twin problems of piracy and the absence of sanitation, Singapore had little value in the eyes of migrants. In contrast, our modern Singapore boasts a First World healthcare and we have one of the most technologically advanced armed forces in the world, Such comparisons with our past does make it seem worlds apart. 

Another comparison that can be made is Singapore's once tenuous relationships with her neighbours. In the 1960s, Singapore faced the vexing issue of negotiating a Common Market with Malaysia, in the hopes of achieving greater economic integration. Despite protracted talks, this deal fell through. Also, in the 1960s, a belligerent Indonesia seeking to punish Singapore and Malaysia for declaring independence launched a spate of bombings as part of Konfrontasi. In contrast, Singapore now has much more amiable relationships with our counterparts in South East Asia, having platforms such as the ASEAN Regional Forum and the Shangri-La Dialogue to air our grievances. Consequently, as the historical challenges faced have been largely ameliorated, and that new challenges are mostly unprecedented, past solutions cannot be effectively reapplied. Hence, this stark absence of similarities has led some to remark that studying history is inconsequential for our next generation. 

