"I don't see what problems I can solve with a swimsuit on a stage." This pertinent line in Kacey Musgrave's 2015 hit single titled 'Pageant Material' delineates the impression that most members of today's society have towards beauty pageants. These beauty contests have had a long history where different women from around the world parade on the stage, and the woman with the highest number of votes from the public, or those who have left a significantly good impression on the judges will take home the crown. These events have proliferated in society, from the local scale such as the annual 'Miss Singapore' or 'Miss Colorado', to a more global scale such as 'Miss Universe'. To say that these events are a disgrace to women in today's society because it portrays them as no more than pretty faces is incorrect as it is paramount that society delves deeper into the workings of these pageants and how they have the capacity to empower and elevate the woman's role in today's society.

Most evidently, it is no surprise that many hold disapproving sentiments towards beauty pageants, This is perhaps due to the nature of the women who take part in these events. From a recent study done by Dove in light of their 'Real Beauty' campaign, it was discovered that most, if not all, of the women selected to represent their countries in the annual 'Miss Universe' competition, have to be of a certain height and weight. In addition, they must also possess well-maintained figures to even dream of walking down Los Angeles's Golden Globe Stage. The stress of importance on the size and shape of women has indeed resulted in many criticising these pageants for reducing women to their physical appearances and nothing than that. Furthermore, the compulsory segment in all beauty pageants where contestants are expected to parade in revealing outfits has evoked many negative sentiments in the public realm as the sexualised image of how women should look like negates the efforts of many women's rights organisations, such as UNIFEM, who are constantly trying to push for women to be regarded not just for their physical assets but also for their intellectual capacity. Thus, many feel that beauty pageants are perpetuating the mindset that women are objects to fulfil sexual desires, due to the constant portrayal of an over-sexualised image that the women taking part in these competitions proffer to society. 


However, it is of paramount importance that society looks past the stereotypical impression of beauty pageants and strives to see the true workings behind these events. Firstly, it is vital to note that the winners of these beauty pageants are not chosen solely based on their looks or body shape. More often than not, these women are put through rigorous training sessions and constantly expand their knowledge on key world events to prove their intellectual ability. Beauty pageants, particularly the ones held in today's society, are pushing for the notion of contestants having 'Beauty with Brains'. This has led to the introduction of the 'Question and Answer' segment in all of such events where these women are asked questions pertaining to important and ongoing events in the social, economic and even political sphere. For example, Miss France was asked if it was ideal for the United States of America to set up a military base in France, to which she gave a remarkable response which showcased her extensive knowledge of the history and relationship between both countries. Therefore, it can be seen that there has been a paradigm shift in the criteria of winning these beauty pageants, as organisers of such events now seem to be placing an emphasis on education for women and the importance of equipping them with knowledge with regards to various global events. Nonetheless, the 'Question and Answer' segment comprises a very small part of the pageant and some critics argue that it may simply be a token gesture. Hence, organisers of such events should consider the idea of expanding this segment as it most definitely serves as an emblem for female empowerment. 
