The rapid advancement of science and technology over the last half century has been lauded for bringing about an inexorable wave of progress, uplifting millions out of poverty and connecting an entire world of seven billion. This has led sceptics to label the study of History as irrelevant, as dwelling on it only inhibits further progress. However, in a world that is increasingly fragmented and rife with conflict, the study of History has never been more relevant. Studying History enables humanity to learn from Our past mistakes and helps to promote our common values. It is my conviction that studying History remains relevant today as it is our hope for creating a better world. 

A compelling argument on why studying History remains valuable is our ability to learn from our previous missteps_ While we marvel at our progress such as in the Industrial Revolution, we must never disavow ourselves from the ugly face of our historical follies. Since 1495, no twenty-five year period in mankind's history has progressed without fighting a major war. The incisive inquiry into History helps elucidate for us not only the deleterious consequences of wars, but also enlightens us with the root causes of war, This is evident in the world we live in today, with escalating military tensions between China and other Southeast Asian claimant states in the South China Sea as well as creeping fears of a Second Cold War in Europe after Russia's annexation of Crimea. The cycle of potential aggression makes History relevant, as seen from how President Aquino of the Philippines compared China to Nazi Germany in World War Two, Using the failure of Chamberlain's appeasement policy, he vociferously advocated for the world to stand up to China, Undoubtedly, such parallels in History serve as a timely reminder about the virulent consequences of not stopping conflict. Thus, studying History informs us of the need to not repeat our mistakes, but instead take urgent action to preserve international peace and stability.

Aside from its divisive nature, the study of History also provides us with relevant lessons about our common human qualities in spite of our differences. While History teaches us of the pernicious consequences of divided humanity in our conquering of war, it also teaches us that our strength lies in unity. The United Nations (UN) is the epitome of such global consensus, with various victories such as women suffrage being won because of international cooperation through the collective organ of the UN. Given the multitude of problems plaguing humanity today, History is relevant as the study of it unveils the power of human values like compassion. An example would be the recent UN report bemoaning the state of the refugee crisis in Europe with 57 million people displaced, a number not seen since World War -Two. Despite their own economic difficulties, there has been political pressure from ordinary citizens for the European Union (EU) to provide a safe accommodation for these refugees. This was also driven by the harrowing memory of their post-World War Two refugee crisis which awakened the conscience of Europe. Therefore, in the light of the cynicism and selfishness that are so prevalent in our pragmatic world today, historical study is relevant as it builds bridges of empathy and inspires the best values of humanity. 
