Another benefit of democracy is that the voices of everyone can be taken into consideration when running the country. This prevents oligopolies from manifesting, where power is concentrated in the hands of a select few. By diversifying the schools of thought, democracy ensures that the state is responsible for addressing the concerns and desires of the masses. Rather than impose their decisions on the populace, democracy ensures that there is a two-way channel open for both politicians and the general public. This enhances the effectiveness of legislation, as it ensures that laws passed truly safeguard the interests of their intended audience. In Switzerland, there is the provision for a Federal Popular Initiative, where anyone who wishes to air his grievances to Parliament can do so simply by amassing at least 50,000 signatures. If this is realised, Parliament is then obligated to discuss the matter. This form of petitioning is not just isolated to Switzerland, as many other democracies such as the USA and Britain practise this form of direct consultation. As such, by eliminating traditional barriers between the government and the electorate, there is greater accountability as anyone is now able to maintain direct contact with them. Democracy hence prevents an aloof and isolated government from forming, ensuring that its policies are in the best interests of the nation. 

However, this consistent desire to ensure that the concerns on the ground are met can also backfire when politicians care more about appealing to the sentiments of voters on the ground than to the realities at hand. Populist politics is a potential worry in democratic countries, where politicians care only about increasing their popularity by competing to introduce attractive policies. While this indisputably benefits the public, it may not be in the interest of the country. Yingluck Shinawatra was elected to power in the last Thai election on the basis of her promised rice-buying scheme, where the government would buy rice from farmers at rates higher than the market. This naturally won her much support from the poorer farmers in Thailand. However, such a scheme soon gave way to realities on the ground when the government realised that it did not have the necessary funds to support such a loss-making policy. Consequently, this only served to highlight the flaws in democracy, where politicians focus not on realities when canvassing for votes, thereby having a detrimental effect on the government as its impartial nature is hampered by its need to appeal for support. This system of indirect vote-buying only serves to tarnish the credibility of the state. In Malaysian elections, there are always allegations of vote-buying, where candidates convince their voters to support them in exchange for preferential policies in return. This is distressing, as this has led to the dissolution of the traditional purpose of elections. Rather than hold the government responsible, elections are now used as platforms for self-advertisement and raising one's popularity. By going against its original aspirations, democracy has lost its viability. 

In conclusion, democracy alone will not be the best form of governance, and it is in dire need of reform. Democracy was once thought to be the most ideal form of government; it is less so now. In the past two millennia since its conceptualisation, the flaws of democracy have only become more pronounced. Nonetheless, it still has merits, but reform is sorely needed. Socialism would thus be a viable theory to complement democracy.
