Ever since Plato extolled its virtues in his masterpiece, 'Me Republic', democracy has always been vied as a "beacon of hope" by the West. It has invariably been conferred to be a sacrosanct right. Not only does democracy entail the protection of human rights, it also ensures that the vox populi will be factored in governance. Hence, it is the preferred method of governance for many countries in today's world. Yet has deviated from theory. While democracy claims to ensure that everyone has an equal voice, majority rule continues to be a vexing issue. Likewise, the enshrining of human rights has the potential to open the floodgates for extremist views to proliferate. In their need to cater to the populace, politicians also frequently enact policies that are popular, but not necessarily ideal. Thus, rather than aspire towards a more democratic civilisation, I opine that an amalgamation of democracy and socialism would be more ideal, as the strengths of socialism can aid in countering the flaws of democracy. 

Democracy is evidently not the best form of governance after all. Democracy ensures that fundamental human rights are upheld, thus ensuring that no one is unfairly oppressed. In a democratic system, the average citizen is accorded certain rights which the State is prohibited from infringing on. For instance, the First Amendment of the United States Constitution respects the infallibility of freedom of speech, ensuring that the citizens are able to enjoy a certain degree of freedom. With such freedom, one is able to express his views liberally, without being under a constant fear of suppression. This has also led to the emancipation of minority groups, who would otherwise suffer more in an authoritarian system. The ideals of "Liberty, Equality and Fraternity" as professed by the French Revolution are a clarion call that continues to resound through the years. Unlike traditional feudalism, democracy aims to overcome class barriers and social hierarchies, giving everyone an equal opportunity to succeed in life. Meritocracy, a key principle of democracy, aims to realise this. Rather than face discrimination and prejudice, individuals in a democratic state are accorded equal opportunities to succeed, regardless of their race or religion. This revolutionary concept has ensured that all individuals, especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds, are able to truly enjoy a better life. Thus, the freedom to work and the freedom from marginalisation have elevated the importance of upholding democracy in the modern era. 

However, there is a fine distinction between protecting human rights and safeguarding extremist views. In a liberal democracy, there is an incessant danger of the proliferation of radical voices. In contrast, more authoritarian societies are able to use draconian measures to crack down on such unorthodox views, and can curb their spread rapidly. For instance, China is able to use extralegal methods such as black jails to check the spread of such dissent, which is unlikely to be replicated in democratic states due to the respect for freedom of speech. In practice, it is thus imprudent to confer such unchecked freedom. In the USA, the Westboro Baptist Church is a notable example of how intolerance and bigotry can thrive in a democratic society. Its members are aggressively anti-homosexual and anti-abortion, and they frequently stage Inflammatory protests. Such acts are only able to survive due to the creation of a society where criticizing another's opinion is viewed negatively, even if it is derogatory in nature. Another infamous incident is the murder of 69 innocent adults and children by Anders Behring Breivik, a self-professed right-wing extremist. Not only was his self-radicalisation unchecked, he was also able to find sympathisers in society. He was only able to thrive for so long as he was from Sweden, which prides herself on her high levels of freedom. Nonetheless, in cases such as this, freedom is evidently unwarranted. Ultimately, a Catch-22 situation would result: ensuring freedom also protects radicals, but restricting extremists leads to clamours for more freedom. Hence, in solving one problem, democracy opens the floodgates to a far more vexing one.  
