Furthermore, the extensive media coverage that beauty pageants - such as the annual 'Miss Universe' competition — have serves to further encourage women from all around the world to strive for excellence in education and the expansion of their knowledge of events around the world. Hence, by portraying women as more than just mere looks, but as individuals with intellectual abilities and capabilities, the role and status of women in today's society will be drastically elevated. Beauty pageants are also a key tool in ensuring that women, especially those in less developed countries, are empowered and motivated to stand up for themselves and their rights. The most recent winner for 'Miss Universe 2015' - Pia Wurtzbach, Miss Philippines is an exemplary example of how beauty pageants seek to empower women. Miss Philippines, commonly dubbed as the 'Disney Princess' of today's society has indeed eloquently portrayed herself to be more than just a beautiful face but also a strong_ minded and determined individual. The very fact that she was born in a less developed country and to a financially unstable family accentuates how beauty pageants are now placing a key importance on the personality of the contestants and not just their wealth in terms of both physical and material aspects. Miss Philippines had to struggle to ensure the livelihood of her family at a young age of 11 due to the death of her father, which left her mother and younger brother depending on her for survival. By exposing the general public to her story of how she strived with determination through her unfortunate predicament and eventually helped her family escape the cycle of poverty, it has indeed served as a motivation for many women around the world. This is especially so in less developed countries where people are generally of a lower income status, and where the women can be inspired by Miss Philippine's determination, and thus be motivated to pursue their dreams and have confidence in themselves. 


Furthermore, beauty pageants also shine a light on pertinent social events around the world. For example, every year, the winner of Miss Universe will be allowed to choose 2 to 3 nria-lor problems faced by today's society. In the following year, they will have to embark on a mission to alleviate or eradicate these problems. Miss Philippines, the winner of last year's 'Miss Universe' had chosen to work on cyber-bullying as well as to ameliorate the living standards of patients who have contracted HIV aids - an extremely pertinent problem in the Philippines. Many other contestants over the years have also raised the awareness of problems such as a lack of access to sanitation and education in severely deprived communities, and many also pushed for campaigns such as disaster aid for disaster stricken countries, an example being the raising of funds for the victims in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. By empowering women with the role of evoking social change and pushing for the eradication of key societal problems, beauty pageants definitely do not disgrace women but instead serve as a reminder to society of how women can indeed significantly contribute to society. This also motivates and encourages women of all ages, country of origin, wealth or social statuses, to embark on social projects which they feel strongly for and push for change in their community in whichever way they can. An example of how beauty pageants have successfully encouraged women can be seen from the campaign organised by a group of middle school students from Westfield School in the United States organised, on the dangers of cyber-bullying in their community. They decided to embark on this campaign after being inspired by Miss Philippine's speech. It can thus be seen that beauty pageants elevates the women's role in today's society and allows us to recognise the true potential of women. 


In essence, beauty pageants showcase the importance of knowledge and education for women, and also play a pivotal role in elevating the status of women in today's society. It will truly be disgraceful if the winner of these events take home the crown solely based on their looks. Therefore, it is vital that although the beauty and physical aspects of beauty pageants will always be there, we have to constantly look past these issues and realise that a significant part of a woman's beauty has to also come from her heart.
