Lastly, historical study is also pertinent in affirming our national identities. This is especially relevant today when many governments are concerned about the dilution in national values amidst a globalising world. While it is true that there is no singular national identity that can be universally accepted by every person due to the divisive nature of History, the study of History allows nations to imbue common national values for unity. This is seen in Singapore, where the study of historical events such as the 1965 separation with Malaysia and the Japanese Occupation of 1942 to 1945 are made integral to the National Education syllabus. The inculcation of such cherished values hold great relevance, as witnessed in how Singaporeans took to social media and other platforms to affirm shared ideals, such as multiculturalism and during the week following former Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew's death and the SG50 celebrations in 2015. Hence, the study of History from a young age helps instil values such as patriotism and nation before self, making it a relevant tool for governments to use in fostering social cohesion. 

On the other hand, there are also legitimate reasons contesting the relevance of the study of History today History world, given our constant obsession and debate over it inhibiting progress. In an increasingly pragmatic world today, History may indeed be an irrelevant stumbling block towards attaining tangible goals such as economic growth. A key example is the flaring up of tensions in East Asia due to historical animosities over Japan's conduct in World War Two. Despite public rhetoric and criticism by China and South Korea over Prime Minister Abe's lack of formal apology in his speech in 2015 for the commemoration of the end of World War Two, the leaders have eschewed such historical luggage for economic benefit. This is seen from how president Xi and Prime Minister Abe sought to strengthen diplomatic exchanges, with financial ministers still acquiescing to strengthen financial cooperation despite the backdrop of historical animosities. Given how countries prize tangible outcomes such as economic trade and integration, the study of History is made increasingly irrelevant as the obsession with the past impedes progress for the future. The study of History could also be perceived as irrelevant as its backward-looking nature impedes change needed in the long term. With a developed and civilized world today, the study of History has become displaced with our penchant for modern comfort. History is inextricably linked to the study of traditional cultures and language and the demise of such rich heritage points to its irrelevance. For example, a UNESCO study has shown the loss of an average of 80 indigenous and tribal languages per year, as traditional tribal groups such as those in the Amazon jungle or African deserts embrace modern life. With a younger and more educated generation more focused on improving its living conditions for tomorrow, this denigration of studying History is being engendered. 

Despite the arguments against the relevance of studying History, I am still convinced of the value it brings to our world today. The way History affects our progress is dependent on how we shape it: While historical animosities obstruct regional cooperation in East Asia, the History of World War Two has provided an impetus for regional cooperation in Europe as the study of History has taught them the importance of interconnectivity. Given that History could be considered a double-edged sword for progress, its relevance in today's world is seen in its power to both better our world and hamper our progress. Thus, the ability for History to take a complementary role in our world makes it useful in today's context. George Santayana once said, "Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it." The paradoxical nature of History means it not only holds the key to our past, but also the mirror to our future. In today's complex world, there is no doubt that studying History is relevant as we seek future progress.
