The success in addressing the needs of the disadvantaged is clearly a feature of a first-world country, Singapore, as a first-world country, has indeed achieved the other first-world features, like economic and political stability, high literacy rates and high quality of education, As such, we definitely have the means to address the material needs of the disadvantaged. However, material needs are not all of what the disadvantaged require. The disadvantaged, which includes the poor, the physically disabled, the intellectually disabled, the mentally disabled and any combinations of the above, have other needs in life, like opportunities to develop themselves and achieve success, and also the dignity of being a part of society. in my opinion, the Singaporean government and voluntary welfare organisations have successfully addressed most of the needs of the disadvantaged. However, I feel that there is a lack of understanding and acceptance for them among the masses in Singapore, which may degrade their dignity. 

With the strong financial position of the government and the vast number of voluntary charity and welfare organisations in Singapore, the material needs of the disadvantaged in Singapore are very well addressed. The poor pay minute amounts of tax (or riot at all), and receive adequate subsidies for housing and healthcare purposes. For example, the poor are able to rent 2-room flats from the government at highly subsidized rates, Apart from Medisave and Medishield, Medifund serves as a vital welfare security net for those who truly cannot afford their healthcare bills. Other than the poor, a vast number of facilities with elderly-friendly and wheelchair-friendly features have been installed. For instance, arm-support railings have been installed in the houses of elderly living alone. These railings allow the elderly to use their arms to support themselves and prevent a fall in case their legs go weak. Wheelchair ramps have also been installed island-wide at staircases for their mobility. Buses, too, have extendable wheelchair ramps for the wheelchair-bound to board buses conveniently. Furthermore, the disadvantaged (and all Singaporean residents in general) can easily send feedback to their district's MPs (Member of Parliament) or Town Council, who will try to address their needs, Therefore, the material needs of the disadvantaged are successfully addressed by the various governmental schemes. 

As the saying goes, 'Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.' Apart from addressing the immediate material needs of the disadvantaged, it is also essential to help them develop and give them opportunities to excel and support themselves in their own ways. I feel that even though there are many developmental programmes put in place by various voluntary welfare organisations (supported by government funding and donations from the public}, there are various limitations to their success. For instance, schools for the intellectually disabled youth, like Pathlight and Northlight School have dedicated teachers and staff who give their utmost efforts in nurturing these disadvantaged youths. The Singapore Association for the Deaf organizes training programmes to increase the employability of its beneficiaries, However, a large proportion of these disadvantaged people do not successfully get employed in the end. This is due to the perception that the disadvantaged are less capable and productive than the average worker, and may even cause trouble at the workplace, Hence, firms, which are profit-oriented, do not want to risk lowering their profits by hiring such workers. Consequently, most of the intellectually and physically disabled have to rely on family and government support, and have limited Opportunities in life compared to the average person.
