As more people seek a better life, more people are moving to live in cities where the standard of living is higher than in rural areas, With these urbanites often settling down in metropolitan cities such as Tokyo, Singapore and Shanghai, cities which are fast paced and densely populated, there is an increasing trend of urbanites being emotionally isolated and disengaged from society, This does not come as a surprise as psychological loneliness often arises in cities where the pace of life is hectic, leading to superficial interactions and social isolation which results in people feeling alienated from society, Nonetheless, city living may not necessarily be the epitome of loneliness as the infrastructure and activities there allow the like-minded to come together easily. 

Firstly, due to the fast pace of life in cities, interactions amongst people are minimal, and even if these interactions exist, they tend to be superficial and transactional causing many urbanites to suffer from psychological Loneliness. As cities are the centres of rapid economic development and growth, efficiency is highly prized and many employees are often rewarded based on efficacy. Students are also in the rat race for various academic achievements. As such, urbanites tend to place more emphasis on their work, with their interactions mainly being work-based, while neglecting the need to assume a slower pace of life and interact with the people around them. For instance, Singapore is the city with the fastest pace of life in the world as reflected by the speed Singaporeans commonly walk - a short 10.55 seconds for 60 feet, In addition, a survey conducted in five Housing Development Board (FOB) towns revealed that most interactions such as greetings and small talk amongst neighbours tend to be 'incidental and minimal'. These illustrate that the fast pace of life is depriving urbanites such as Singaporeans of meaningful and fruitful interactions with the people around. This leaves them with an emotional void and a sense of isolation, as they are unable to fully connect socially and emotionally with other people. Therefore, a fast pace of life leads to people having superficial interactions which unintentionally makes them feel lonely, despite being amongst many throngs of people in the city. 

Secondly, social isolation is also experienced by other people living in urban cities such as migrant workers, as they are often marginalised by society, Migrants are often left out from society as they are considered to be outsiders who only come to these cities for better jobs and life prospects. Thus, migrants are unable to completely integrate into urban society. With the disengagement of migrants from the majority of the urbanites, the migrants tend to feel less included in cities and therefore lonely. In China, governmental policies such as the stifling Hukou system exacerbate the problems of social isolation experienced by migrant workers and their children. The Shanghai Gaojin No. 3 Middle School has two different campuses for the migrant children and the urban children; the quality of education is lower on the migrant children's campus. This reflects the presence of social discrimination that can lead to migrants in urban cities feeling alienated and lonely even when they are surrounded by millions of other urbanites. 
