I would also argue that too much liberty has a detrimental effect on society, as people use liberty to make wrong choices - choices that inevitably harm themselves and the people around them. They often do not see the full costs of their decision, but at the same time, they are allowed to make the error without being corrected. One prominent example is the recent development of Brexit, the decision by the United Kingdom government to give her citizens the freedom to decide if they wanted to remain in the European Union. The union has been hailed as a symbol of the European countries' commitment to maintaining peace and cooperating with each other economically. Despite expert warnings that this would cause financial disaster and have a deleterious effect on the country's prosperity, people chose to leave out of fear of the influx of migrants 'stealing' their jobs. This threatens to plunge the UK into an economic crisis and affect the stability of the European region. Evidently, liberty has permitted people to be guided by irrational emotions, such as xenophobia, and make unwise choices that have an adverse impact on society as a whole. 

It is, however, often pointed out that liberty is vital for the preservation of basic rights for many. With liberty, people are given the right to voice dissent and demand certain freedoms. For example, in Hong Kong, the freedom to protest has led to the Umbrella Movement, where the people called for true democracy as they felt unfairly treated by the China-controlled local government. The right to dissent has also put to end horrendous practices of the past, such as slavery and the segregationist movement, which oppressed the African-Americans and restricted their freedom greatly. However, I would argue that such positive progress is possible even when liberty is moderated. For example, in Singapore, people are allowed to carry out peaceful demonstrations in Hong Lim Park and voice their opinions to minsters at the Meet-The-People sessions, despite being unable to legally take to the streets in a full-blown protest. Thus, people's lives can still be improved even if they do not have complete liberty. 

In conclusion, liberty has been over-emphasized in today's world and needs to be reined in, lest it causes more problems as countries continue to progress. Governments need to ensure that people do not abuse their liberty and cautiously intervene if necessary, but still continue to listen to their voices in order to better their lives.
