On the other hand, compulsory volunteer work may be effective if it is imposed in a different way, If volunteer work is qualified based on initiative and level of impact, it would more successfully enable participants to understand and develop a passion to seek to address problems in society. The Singapore division of the Google company also makes it compulsory for its employees to participate in volunteer work. However, instead of setting a minimum quota of hours, employees are pushed to single out a problem they observe in society and develop an initiative to address the problem, This facilitates the process of employees taking time to ponder on how exactly to contribute to an inclusive and cohesive society with their activity. The motive to start new initiatives instead of relying on existing charitable organisations for volunteer opportunities also enable participants to have first-hand interaction with the people in need. Such initiatives include Health Mapping: the provision of free health screening for low-income elderly, where participants visit the homes of the elderly to render the service to them personally. The empathy created in this manner is far more irn ..-Pactful in developing a passion for volunteerism since it is the main focus and basis of the initiative. Post-activity surveys conducted on the employees showed that they were better able to understand the needs of the disadvantaged in society and that they were more willing to initiate more of similar activities in future. This is a micro example of how compulsory volunteer work with the correct focus can successfully propagate the spirit of empathy and compassion in participants to build a cohesive society. 

However, the need to make volunteer work compulsory is ultimately a worrisome revelation of the lack of understanding towards volunteerism and the absence of compassion and inclusivity in our society. The spirit of volunteerism cannot be forced upon people; it must be developed. Instead of simply imposing upon members of society to do volunteer work on a mandatory basis, the government can use other measures to tackle people's ignorance and lack of empathy towards society. Shedding greater light on the difficult lives of low-income families, the elderly living alone, or even environmental problems faced by society can be done through the use of media. The Straits Times occasionally publishes articles that put the spotlight on people facing difficulties such as disabilities, which can enable the readers to become more aware of such problems and have the motivation to act on it. Local television programs such as 'Don't Call Us Poor' screened on Channel News Asia also raise awareness on income inequality, an issue that society is plagued with. These solutions can help better address the root of the problem of the lack of volunteerism by bringing understanding. Conviction to help those in need is the greatest incentive for participation in volunteer work. 

An inclusive society with a spirit of compassion is a more cohesive one. Volunteerism is key to allowing this goal to be achieved. Turning it into another negatively perceived and dreaded activity by making it compulsory cannot truly nurture this spirit of compassion despite increasing participation rates. The government and firms in Singapore should look to solutions that spark people's passion for volunteerism instead of forcing them into it. Only then can we observe long-term effects and a progressively inclusive Singapore.
