As human beings, no one can boast an unfamiliarity with the feeling of loneliness: the suffocating feeling of isolation from the people around us even when they are in close proximity with us. Unfortunately, the paradox of being lonely in a crowd is experienced by far more people than ever before, now that more parts of the world are being urbanised and an increasing number of people live in cities, where people live, work and play in the same area along with thousands of other people. As convenient as it is, city living can perpetuate the feeling of loneliness due to the rigid and compartmentalised housing structures and increased self-sufficiency due to technological advancement. Naysayers may argue that the design of the city allows for increased interaction in designated areas, but it is my conviction that city living today perpetuates loneliness, even in the crowd, due to the individualistic, bustling lifestyle it promotes as well as its often claustrophobic design, the degree of which, however, depends on the culture and efforts of the people themselves. 

The structural compartmentalisation of living spaces in a city does not provide an environment that facilitates neighbourly interaction and instead creates a sense of isolation between the different individuals. Despite the fact that housing in cities is such that everyone lives in extremely close proximity with each other to accommodate the high volume of people living in a single space, the way that apartments are designed separates the individuals from each other in a structured, rigid way, which causes individuals to feel disconnected from their neighbours. Such apartments such as the Housing Development Board blocks in Singapore are necessary due to its limited space, but can make people feel lonely. This is because people live in such close proximity with so many people, but have little to no meaningful interaction with these people that they see daily. This living structure can be compared to that in rural villages such as Kampung Naga in Bandung, Indonesia. In this cosy and isolated environment, the thatched low-rise huts are always open and built to face each other, facilitating frequent meaningful interactions between the villagers who often help each other to cook and finish chores. This `Kampung Spirit' is lost in the domino apartments of cities, ironically creating an increased feeling of loneliness even though there are in fact far more people to interact with than in small villages. The housing design contributes heavily as to why loneliness is becoming increasingly prevalent. 

Another reason for the loneliness felt in the city is the increasing advancement of technology accessible to people in cities, causing individuals to become increasingly self-sufficient, which can distance them from others around them and increase their isolation. With the rising affluence of people living in cities, especially in developed countries, the number of people who have access to handheld technological devices such as smartphones and tablets have increased significantly. Even in less developed countries, a high percentage of people have access to the Internet, which contains a world of information and entertainment of its own. Previously, one would have to seek help from others or travel to common spaces such as libraries in order to get information they need, but in this day and age, everything they could possibly need to know is available at the click of a button. 
