"Liberty, equality, fraternity!" This was the rallying cry of the French Revolution, a turning point in Mankind's history. It signalled a new beginning, where people of different countries started valuing the ideals of freedom and the ability to make individual choices in the various aspects of their lives such as religion, politics and society. However, the need for liberty has become an unhealthy obsession and has affected intrinsic societal goals such as caring for others and protecting peace and harmony. Too much liberty has led to careless, erroneous mistakes on our part, as we fail to safeguard the interests of other parties. Thus, I believe that we have placed liberty on too high a pedestal. 

In our pursuit of liberty, we have largely ignored the other two tenets of modern democracies, namely equality and fraternity. We disregard the needs and perspectives of others and instead, choose to preserve our own liberty at the expense of the freedom of other stakeholders. One distinct example would be the overemphasis on religious freedom in America, where Christians seek to limit the rights of the LGBTQ community and prevent women from getting abortions. Kim Davis, a Kentucky government official, refused to issue marriage licences for same-sex couples and has been hailed by some as a 'freedom fighter' for her religious beliefs, despite the fact that the Supreme Court has already ruled in favor of same-sex marriage. The pro-life movement has also gained momentum, lobbying to limit women's right to abort, even though it is required in cases of rape and underage sex. They claim that it infringes on their belief that life is God-given. Therefore, it is apparent that the great importance placed on individual liberty has led to people misusing their freedom to subjugate the rights of others and ignoring the needs of minorities in society. 

The emphasis on liberty has also led to increasing socio-economic inequality in the world, dividing people into factions. This is especially so with the rise of capitalism, which gives people the ability to freely move their capital around, and the lack of social safeguards to ensure people do not fall behind economically. For instance, the government policy of positive non-interventionism in Hong Kong markets has led to huge investments in private property and a shortage of public housing, which is less profitable. This shortage has resulted in many living in deplorable conditions behind the facade of a booming economy. The Panama Papers have revealed widespread tax evasion by the wealthy around the world, who moved their assets into off-shore corporations. This affected governments' tax revenue, and consequently, the welfare of lower income groups. Thus, the freedom of capital movement has proven that liberty often comes into conflict with the well-being of the disadvantaged, as people abuse their free dons to enrich themselves and, in the process, neglect others. 
