On the other hand, the poor do have opportunities to perform well in life. This is especially true for children from poor households. Their schooling costs, including textbooks and uniform costs, are highly (or even fully) subsidized under the Ministry of Education Financial Assistance Scheme. There are even religious and voluntary organisations providing free or highly subsidized tuition classes for these children. Even though the quality of these tuition classes provided may be of a lower calibre as compared to certain professional tuition centres, they still provide them with a more equal standing as compared to their more Well-to-do peers, Furthermore, if they do exceptionally well in school, they can apply for various scholarships, which are open to all Singaporean students, to pursue their higher education and secure a promising career in a field that they are passionate about. Thus, while the opportunities for the physically and intellectually disabled are not successfully met, students in a tight spot financially still have many opportunities lying ahead of them. 

Finally, another need of the disabled less talked about — dignity — has barely been addressed in society. This is due to the culture and beliefs of the Singaporean society. To the rich, the poor may have 'brought it all upon themselves' due to their lack of hard work and talent. The physically able do pity the disabled. However, they see the disabled as a different part of society — they have nothing to do with them. As such, the disabled may feel looked down upon, and that the able cannot understand their troubles. This can be seen in public spaces where most people only interact with the disabled when they need help, and the physically disabled are given curious, or even fearful stares which can make them feel uneasy. In a society where even neighbours hardly interact, it is of no surprise that the disadvantaged — especially those with obvious signs of disability, are excluded. As such, they feel marginalized and not accorded the dignity of being part of society. 

In conclusion, the needs of the disabled, especially in areas which can be solved by the government and voluntary welfare organisations, are usually successfully addressed. However, the less well-defined and financially unsolvable needs are often not very successfully met. As such, it is crucial to raise awareness among Singaporeans on the struggles of the disadvantaged, and the ways in which they are just like us, with their very own dreams and aspirations. Only through this, will the Singaporean society learn to be more empathetic towards the disadvantaged, and help them integrate better into the society.
