Moreover, individual entertainment options are also higher as movies and games are cheaply available online, which reduces the need for social interaction for leisure. In fact, a rising trend in cities is to see individuals, including young children, working adults and elderly folks alike, frequently staring down at their phones in public spaces: on public transportation, on the streets, sometimes even when in the presence of loved ones. These devices create a sense of isolation as by frequently using these devices rather than physically interacting with people, distance is created, and with distance, loneliness will inevitably arise from our self-imposed isolation within the crowd. Even the frequent use of social media can ironically create an artificial sense of popularity, which starves the individual of physical, meaningful friendships. Hence, the rising technological presence in cities can increase the sense of loneliness within crowds. 

Naysayers, however, would postulate that spaces in cities are designed in such a way that facilitates interactions, which would theoretically ward off feelings of loneliness. This is not untrue in many cities, in which creative, informal locations are provided for the public to have fun, create memories and have conversations. For instance, spaces such as water playgrounds, theme parks, and even playgrounds allow individuals to have fun with others, and they are purposefully designed with this intention. Even places like cat cafes and restaurants can provide cosy, informal settings for individuals to interact and bond, preventing feelings of loneliness and isolation. While this is true, these places are only useful in staving off loneliness when people take the initiative to get together and utilise them. Unfortunately, this is becoming increasingly difficult due to the bustling, fast-paced lifestyle that most city folks lead, in their bid to balance school and work with social interactions. With increasing demands on work, people are less able to make time for interactions when the corporate world has trained them to be individualistic, work-minded and focused on achieving success. In a way, this is necessary due to the increasingly high costs of living in many urban cities which creates the need for individuals to work harder to make a living_ Consequently, it is easy to get sucked into this corporate business world such that interacting is not high on one's list of priorities, which can invariably lead to loneliness. It does not help that many of these places cost money to occupy, serving as a further deterrence. The busy lifestyles of individuals in cities can prevent people from using the spaces designated for interaction, which can lead to loneliness in the bustling, busy crowd. 

In conclusion, 'lonely in a crowd' is unfortunately quite an apt description of city life today, due to the lifestyle it promotes. The close physical proximity does not prevent the psychological isolation that so many feel due to the bustling, individualistic lives led. However, the degree as to how apt this is as a description depends on the people themselves, as in some cities the Happiness Index is higher than that of others, reflecting the possibility of a healthy, vibrant city life if only people have the right attitude.
