However, the claim that the government should always value its domestic needs above others is not justified if its action has serious repercussions on the global scale. If a country ignores the impact of their policies on third parties such as neighbouring countries, it could infringe on the sovereignty and national interests of other nations and compromise the greater good. A notable example would be the burning of lands by Indonesian farmers, which had a detrimental environmental impact on its Southeast Asian neighbours. Due to the economic benefits reaped by local farmers through deforestation and the burning of fields, the Indonesian government has been largely indifferent to the repercussions on its neighbouring countries such as Malaysia and Singapore.  This annual affair has caused large amounts of smoke and haze to be carried across its borders, causing spill-over effects that are deleterious to other countries. The hazardous level of smoke particles have led to a deterioration of health amongst citizens of Singapore and Malaysia, and even a significant drop in the tourism sector. 

On the other hand, if a nation merely considers the welfare of other nations at the expense of their own domestic needs, it may lead to the loss of political support and their legitimacy over the nation. A prime example is Taiwan, in which the previous leader Ma Ying-Jeou was unable to meet the demands of his people and be in line with their vision to fight for an independent Taiwan apart from China. His inability to connect with the masses as seen from his overtly friendly relationships with mainland China, incited domestic outrage over jeopardising Taiwan's welfare in exchange for personal economic interests. As a result, popular support for him plummeted, leading to the loss of his party in the 2016 elections, allowing for the landslide victory of Tsai Ing-wen who was able to ally with the masses and answer their fears and concerns. This shows that a politician has to share similar political aspirations with his people in order to trust and support, or else he would risk his legitimacy to rule, culminating in growing opposition, eventually ending his political stint. Thus, it is necessary for governments to place the needs of its people before of foreigners. 

On the contrary, if a government prioritises the needs of its locals before foreigners, its policies may threaten political ties and diplomatic relationships with other countries, eventually causing more harm to its people and worsening their prospects. This can be seen in the nuclear power accumulation by lran, which successfully tested its nuclear programme to safeguard its sovereignty and political interests. Such a move is an act of deterrence in a world with volatile and unpredictable geopolitics, especially seen in the annexation of Crimea by belligerent Russia in 2014. This raised global alarm and invited intervention in countries such as the US and UK, viewing Iran's action as a hostile one which could jeopardise global peace and security. As a result, it strained relationships between Iran and its trading partners, such that they imposed sanctions and embargoes to contain Iran's expanding nuclear capabilities. This shows that governments which prioritise the needs of their people and country are myopic if they fail to take into account the global repercussions. If their actions compromise the welfare of others, it would lead to the breakdown of diplomatic ties and could worsen a country's welfare. Therefore, in situations where the actions of a government could threaten the sovereignty of others, prioritising its people first may not be justified and may even lead to counteractive outcomes. 

