Nonetheless, not all migrants will face social isolation in cities. There are some cities that fully welcome migrants with open arms. Belfast residents in Germany are supportive of government policies to take in Syrian refugees and many even invite the refugees to stay in their homes, This alludes to the fact that it is not always true that migrants will feel lonely as there are times when they are welcomed and included by the community. 

Yet, some may argue that migrants still face social isolation and experience loneliness in most cities around the world. For example, in Singapore, the locals' constant complaints of Chinese nationals being noisy are reflective of the marginalization foreigners face, Furthermore, in 2008, over 1,400 Serangoon Gardens residents signed the petition against the setting up of a dormitory for foreign workers due to their concerns of higher crime rates and lower property value. The negative perception that the locals have of migrants and the hostility towards them causes the workers to feel excluded and lonely. Over in Europe, the refusal of European nations, such as Belgium and Hungary, to accommodate Syrian refugees in their cities further highlights the prominent problem of social isolation faced by migrants. However, others contend that cities make it easy and convenient for the like-minded to come together, which is why loneliness should not be a problem. With well-established infrastructure such as a good transportation system which allow people to commute easily, the numerous places of interests such as museums and parks for urbanites who share the same interests to congregate to interact and exchange ideas with each other, it is in fact easier for urbanites to find other like-minded people in cities as cities are pluralistic in nature with a diversity of people. In Singapore, for example, many cyclists meet other bicycle enthusiasts by joining cycling communities such as Joyriders and Team Midpoint. Together, they cycle to various parts of Singapore as a form of recreation. This shows that, even in the cities, urbanites have many opportunities to meet other people who have similar hobbies and with whom they are able to connect with. Hence, it is possible for urbanites to not feel lonely in the cities as they can find companionship with the people of similar interests. 

In conclusion, there is fellowship to be found in the city, as there are opportunities for people to bond with the like-minded; however, for many, living in the city can be a lonely experience as they face social isolation due to marginalization, as well as emotional loneliness stemming from superficial interactions. Hence, despite being surrounded by close friends and being accepted by society, there are still many who feel "lonely in a crowd"; it is important that society does not neglect them.
