While Singapore's society appears to be flourishing, with a high standard of living enjoyed by many, there are groups in this very same society that are often forgotten and neglected. The low-income families and elderly living alone who are stuck in the vicious cycle of poverty are often overlooked by fellow members of society. Volunteerism is the golden opportunity to bridge the gap of understanding and empathy, as well as to address the ignorance towards such problems in society. It can essentially help to make society a more inclusive and compassionate one. However, to make volunteer work compulsory can reduce the impact and meaning of volunteerism. The word 'volunteer' means to present oneself on his or her own initiative to serve others. To have volunteer work made compulsory is an irony in itself and I believe it is not an effective way to truly promote volunteerism. 

Firstly, if volunteer work is made compulsory, this would inevitably force certain originally unwilling members of society to participate against their will_ While it is important to give force or motivation to push people to experience such work, the compulsory status of volunteer work may simply bring contempt towards it. Students in Singapore must complete a minimum number of hours of volunteer work under the Values-in-Action Programme. (VIA) This is the main driving force for youths) participation in volunteerism A survey conducted by the National Youth Council (NYC) in 2013 found that volunteerism was not one of the top ten things perceived to be of greatest importance by students. The lack of correlation between participation rates in volunteer work and the magnitude of understanding towards its importance evidently shed light on the fact that making it compulsory has failed to evoke empathy and compassion, which are the basis for volunteerism in the first place. To exacerbate the problem, the imposition of a minimum quota of VIA hours has even brought dread among some students who may simply view it as a source of pressure rather than an opportunity to play a role in building an inclusive society. This would mean that making it compulsory for society is a solution that is not only ineffective but detrimental to the spirit of volunteerism, as reflected by the current situation of Singaporean students. 

While imposing a compulsory minimum quota of time spent in volunteer work on the society is ineffective in encouraging volunteerism, it is also ineffective to quantify volunteer work with a quota. To make volunteer work compulsory based on how much time people spend on it diverts the attention of participants form the main function of volunteerism: to develop empathy for others. Instead of enabling members of society to be compassionate about the difficulties faced by others in the same society, compulsory volunteer work may simply act as a short term one-off experience for participants if they simply participate to accumulate as many hours as they can for the sake of portfolio-building. NYC analysed that over thirty percent of people aged between fifteen to twenty-four were active volunteers, which greatly surpassed the percentages of the same age group in the United States and Canada. Sadly, NYC also observed that this percentage dropped to seven percent for people above the age of twenty-four. The sharp contrast in participation rates shows that Singaporeans simply stop volunteering once they have less time on their hands and have no force to push them. This leads to the revelation that true conviction towards helping others in society is still largely absent, simply because the quality of volunteering experiences has been overshadowed by the need to quantify them. Thus, making volunteer work mandatory is a shallow solution with a transient effect.
