Furthermore, the conflicts of today are often asymmetrical, particularly in the realm of violent conflict, and the government has found itself to be even more inept at dealing with the shapeshifting enemy. The perpetrators of deadly conflict and the people who stoke racial or socioeconomic tensions behind a wall of anonymity are unseen culprits, and dealing with these armed conflicts or disputes in the socioeconomic realm requires governments to deal with the root cause behind them. Yet it appears that governments do not know how; Boko Haram has been going on bloody rampages in Nigeria, yet the Nigerian government helmed by a former military leader is still attempting to deal with the social and political fallout from the abduction of the Chibok girls almost three years ago. ISIS thrived on a groundswell of local support, and terrorised the West2 until it decided to establish itself as a state with territories that could be conquered with conventional military forces. This provides for a damning assessment of government power, for even the most powerful governments in the world, united in spirit, have been unable to defeat a tiny, but shrewd, enemy. 

In fact, it can be said that it is precisely the overwhelming might these governments wield that make them powerless to asymmetric conflict – by being too heavy-handed in their resolution of such conflicts, governments worsen the problem by inspiring more rebels and inciting further tensions in society. Governments do not understand the conflicts they are dealing with, which renders them helpless even with the might of a state’s resources behind them. Ultimately, governments are often powerless to deal with the conflicts of today because the governments themselves are the root cause of these conflicts. For instance, dissent in Hong Kong and conflict between Hong Kongers and mainlanders was born out of the ineptitude of the Hong Kong Chief Executive, and there is little the government can do to quell the tensions but to hope for the best. In other words, the xenophobia and hatred that created current social conflicts were purposefully cultivated for the governments’ own political means, just that these social developments got out of hand. In Myanmar, for instance, much of the violence on the Rohingyas is sanctioned by the majority Buddhist government, inspiring monks such as the ‘Burmese bin Laden’ to turn on their own fellow countrymen. Now that the conflict between the stateless Rohingyas and the Burmese has gone past the tipping point, there is little that the junta could or the government can do to resolve these tensions in society. The governments that perpetrated these conflicts cannot stop these negative social developments without appearing hypocritical, and even if they do attempt to quell these enmities in a bid to deal with the conflict they lose their trustworthiness in the eyes of the people, and in effect lose their ability to act even if they have the humane will to do so. The government is thus stuck in a Catch-22 situation, rendering national leaders helpless and leaving them to the mercy of the public. Addressing the social developments or tensions behind national or cross-border conflict is essential in dealing with the conflicts today, but when the government has been a direct cause of the conflict, inadvertently or purposefully, there is nothing it can do to relieve the conflict and stop the madness. 

In conclusion, governments are increasingly appearing to be helpless at dealing with our current conflicts, and with good reason – they are sorely ill-equipped to deal with the conflicts that our world faces today. Indeed there is little any one body or organisation can do to deal with our conflicts – even the national peace quartet from Tunisia that won the Nobel Peace Prize could only maintain the harmony for so long – and the best we can do at this point in time is to prepare for the worst and hope for the best. Our world today is a messy one, giving rise to the most chaotic conflicts in human memory; our governments need to begin the long, arduous, and painful transition if they wish to have some semblance of control and a modicum of power in addressing the conflicts of our modern world.
