Some argue that parents today have it easier than when their parents were raising them because of the various government policies in place currently to help couples on their journey to parenthood. Having all kinds of bonuses and grants reduces the financial burden on new parents which can allow them to focus on parenting without worrying too much about finances. Some of these schemes include the Baby Bonus Scheme with a cash gift of up to S$2,000, as well as the Child Development Account, which is a special savings account for children with added benefits of up to S$18,000 to be spent on approved uses. These financial assistance schemes from the government certainly do help defray the cost of raising a child, at least in the first few years of his or her life. The benefits have been revised over the years to provide more financial help to parents and we could expect more of such revisions. Certainly, such social welfare benefits were not available to parents less than two decades ago. Half a century ago, parents from the working class, especially those who were not as highly educated, had to work multiple odd jobs just to get by and raise their children, and financial help from the then newly set-up government were far and few in between. In this way, parenting today, at least providing for children in terms of their physical needs, may be easier than before. 

Moreover, it can be argued that with the Internet in today’s world, information and resources are much more readily available for parents to guide them in various aspects of parenting. At the core, providing for children’s physical needs is the most basic job of a parent. What then sets good parents apart? The Internet believes it has the answers, with a plethora of articles, blogs and forums to help nervous parents at every stage in parenting, to be the good parents all parents strive to be. Sites like ‘Serious about Preschool’ for parents of preschool-age children and ‘KiasuParents’ for parents of school-going children aged up to 18 years old—the Internet has it all. These resources include professional insights from industry experts on enrichment classes for toddlers to ‘How to be your teen’s best friend’. There are also forums for fellow parents to exchange tips and tricks and forge a sense of community. At just a click of mouse, parents will be thoroughly educated on how to be the best parent for their child. This is a stark contrast to the past where such resources were scarce and hard to find. Now, with the rise of the Internet age, these pillars of support are more easily accessible to parents of the modern world. As such, given the abundance of parenting resources, it can be claimed that it is less challenging to be a good parent today than in the past. 

Yet despite all these improvements, parents still lament that it is harder today than ever before. And they have reason to believe so. As the Singaporean economy develops, the lines between work and private life have blurred and parents have less time to spend with their children, which is especially important in a child’s formative years. A 2015 global statistics found that Singaporeans work an average of 45.6 hours a week, which is the second highest in the developed world. This, while not startling, is concerning for parents who have to struggle with long hours at work and raising children. As National University Singapore (NUS) sociologist Tan Ern Ser pointed out, working long hours and being mentally occupied with work lead to less quality time with family members, especially those who need attention the most. Even when parents are physically present, they may still mentally be at work. This effect can be attributed to the rise of mobile devices, making work more portable than ever. Dr Walter Theseira from Singapore University of Social Sciences also notes that employees are expected to reply work emails and read work documents on mobile phones even after work hours. This further skews the work-life balance, allowing work to pervade into our private lives, making it harder to parent children. Clearly, juggling work and raising children at the same time is a feat in itself, making good parenting harder in the modern world.

