On a governmental level, it may appear as though leaders of developed nations provide global aid for solely humanitarian and altruistic purposes. But this is not necessarily true. More often than not, aid is carefully and rationally calculated. Contrary to popular belief, aid is a trade for policy masquerading as charity and is made between leaders for their own intentions.  For the aid-giving countries, their motive for giving aid could be to influence the aid-recipient to act in a way that benefits them, politically or economically. These conditionalities attached to the aid makes donor countries focus too much on the commercial advancement of their country instead of what the recipients need. In the United Kingdom, the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) allegedly granted aid connected to the achievement of foreign policy goals or British companies winning export orders. The scandal concerned was about a hydroelectric dam on Pergau River in Malaysia which was funded by the UK foreign aid budget in 1991. In return, the Malaysian government bought around £1 billion worth of arms from the UK. On another occasion, in 1995, the World Bank promised loans to Mozambique if it cut its export tariffs on raw nuts in an attempt to open up its economy. Not long after, the country’s once-thriving nut industry was in the doldrums, leaving 10,000 people out of work. U.S. Representative Howard Berman once mentioned, “Aid is not a gift. The United States provides foreign assistance because it serves our interests.” It is painfully clear that tied aid is designed to benefit the donors and not the recipients, with no improvement to the lives of those who are actually in need of it.

However, selfish as aid may be, the idea of rendering aid to develop other countries to prevent their problems from reaching us may be incentive enough for aid to be effective and actually help those who need it. Bill and Melinda Gates recounted such concepts in their Annual Letter 2019, discussing how countries like the United States invest in foreign aid because it increases stability abroad and security at home, that is if the aid provided does produce results. Examining the recent Ebola outbreak, strengthening global healthcare systems decreases the chances of a deadly pathogen like Ebola becoming a global epidemic. Improving the education and safety abroad keeps people from leaving their countries to seek better lives elsewhere and could help in the long-term in alleviating the migrant crisis happening in many of these aid-donor countries, like the US and Europe. This new mindset change towards solving problems in other countries to prevent them from reaching us has led to a paradigm shift in the aid industry, from being humanitarian to be results-driven. This idea is echoed in Raj Kumar’s new book, “The Business of Changing the World: How Billionaires, Tech Disrupters, and Social Entrepreneurs Are Transforming the Global Aid Industry”, where Kumar writes that the aid industry has transformed from one organized around good intentions to one with competition for good results. And this is good news for the aid recipients. At last, donors are actually trying to make an impact instead of being driven by their own ulterior motives. In the past, aid was often given without consideration to people’s actual needs as outsiders assumed they knew what they needed. For example, following the 2004 Indian Ocean Earthquake, Sri Lanka’s foreign minister reportedly said that the aid coming in, despite the goodwill, was “not very useful”, as it included containers full of teddy bears and rice when the country was expecting a bumper harvest. But with the transforming of the aid industry itself, we could see less of such incidents occurring in the future, with recipients’ lives being improved in a tangible sense.

Yet, another major obstacle in foreign aid really impacting the lives of those in need are the very governments in charge of the aid-receiving countries. In many of these developing countries, corruption is rife and dishonest leaders would siphon the funds meant to help their countrymen for their own gain. A prime example of this is South Africa’s president, Jacob Zuma, who spent a whopping US$16 million to do “security updates” to his house. In actuality, he had built a new swimming pool on his property and called it a “fire protection device”, when the funds used for the project could have gone to help the South African community. Yet this preposterous situation is not a standalone case, as such cases are widely prevalent across the developing world. In Nepal, which suffers from poor governance and endemic corruption, the delivery of aid was delayed following the Gorkha Earthquake that hit the country in 2015. Isolated villages high up in the Himalayas were yet to be reached three weeks after the initial quake, increasing the potential for more deaths. Its reputation of corruption has also deterred aid, as donors are less willing to donate, ultimately impacting the innocent people affected by the quake. In this way, corrupt governments of aid-receiving countries inhibit the delivery of aid, using the resources for their own private benefit instead, which winds up hurting the people who actually need the aid.


