Some argue that the elderly may be a burden to society in that they put a strain on public finances. With old age comes decreased mobility, slower reactions and illnesses, which means that many elderly persons do not work and may require financial and healthcare support from the government. In many countries, the government provides social support and financial support for the elderly, whether in terms of pension or providing medical services. With limited resources, countries have to divert funds away from other sectors to support the elderly, hence giving rise to the view that the elderly are a burden. Moreover, in many countries such as South Korea and Italy, an aging population is an issue which comes hand-in-hand with falling birth rates and hence the growing tax burden is being supported by a dwindling band of younger workers. More than US$5 billion was spent on healthcare for the elderly in Singapore in 2015 as healthcare expenditure for each senior is about four times that for the average person. In Canada, the average amount spent on private and public healthcare services is 3 times higher for a person aged over 65 than an average person. Clearly, one can see that the elderly do pose a considerable burden to public finances. In addition, the elderly are sometimes viewed as a burden in that they place financial and emotional stress on their families. As senior citizens face higher incidence of illnesses, their families are confronted with increasing healthcare expenditure, among many other costs. The working adults have to pay for bills, loans, mortgage, and daily necessities, and hence the financial burden of supporting their elderly dependents will further increase this load. Moreover, the elderly require more time and attention due to factors such as higher fall risk. This further engenders mental and emotional stress in families. In Germany and the United Kingdom (UK), many families cannot afford to provide necessary medical attention to the elderly due to rising healthcare costs. Research conducted by the Lien Foundation in Singapore suggests that the cost of looking after a disabled senior at home, without subsidies, can go up to $3,100, which is an exorbitant cost for the average Singaporean household, which has a monthly household income of $9,293. The alternative of sending the elderly to 24/7 care centres is also ruled out for many families due to the exorbitant prices involved. In this fast-paced society where money is a scarce resource, it is indeed difficult for families to find sufficient time and capital to care for the elderly. Therefore, the elderly may be seen as a burden to their families. 

Furthermore, it is highlighted that the elderly may not possess the relevant skillsets to adapt to a rapidly changing socio-economic landscape. With industrialization and modernisation, new skillsets are required in workplaces and the elderly find it difficult to compete against technologically-savvy youths who have higher productivity. According to National University of Singapore sociologist Tan Ern Ser, senior citizens admittedly have lower levels of literacy than their younger peers. The decreased economic relevance of the elderly can be seen in many companies, where the average age of Chief Executive Officers has fallen from 59 in 1980 to almost 50 years of age today. Many corporations also prefer youths to older workers as youths are seen to be more creative and efficient. The American Association of Retired Persons or AARP recently published a survey, in which 76% of respondents felt that they face greater difficulty in job-hunting due to their age, presumably because they were seen as ‘outdated’ or ‘antiquated’ in their thinking. Whether this view is merited notwithstanding, it is arguably true that the elderly are viewed as increasingly obsolete in the economy of tomorrow.

Yet, while the aforementioned challenges may seem overwhelming, it is essential to recognize that the elderly are not inevitably doomed to be a burden to society. Amidst an increasing elderly population in many countries, it has become ever more urgent and important for countries to tap on the pool of elderly as a demographic group which can bring about greater opportunities and benefits. The elderly need not be a burden to society if sound government policies are devised and implemented to encourage the elderly to become economically productive. The elderly, while less mobile and efficient, still represent a large pool of people who can contribute to the economy. Governments can introduce policies to encourage elderly participation in the workforce by providing monetary incentives, as well as retraining and skills upgrading opportunities. For instance, Singapore has the Workfare Income Supplement scheme, which gives older workers higher take-home pay and increased Central Provident Fund contributions. The Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices also uses advertisements and schemes to encourage employment of older workers by changing socio-cultural perceptions of the elderly. By encouraging the elderly to become financially independent, less pressure is placed on governments and families to provide support for the elderly. In fact, the elderly can help to supplement the dwindling workforce in many countries by filling in labour gaps such as in the services industry. From the aforementioned, one can evidently see that the elderly can provide many benefits to society if sound governmental policies are put in place to encourage the elderly to become more independent. 




