However, I would argue that although the previous two points seem valid, they might not be so when analysed further. There is often a fine line between religious and political acts, which people often fail to notice. For example, the aforementioned acts of the Roman Church have been suggested by some theologians as an effort to maintain political power over their nation. They had used religion as an effective foil to cover their political agendas as they were afraid that should science become more developed, people may not trust in God anymore and concurrently, the Church who controlled the masses and their actions. Similarly, many Muslim leaders have condemned the deeds of ISIS for not reflecting what Islam truly is - 'a Religion of Peace'. The motives behind such wars, atrocities and it logical moves can thus now be questioned, as these acts could have actually been driven by vices like pride and greed, and other factors which may be Political or racial. These acts are not necessarily caused by religion. In fact, religion has the power to cure these immoral causes, due to its ability to help people discern between right and wrong. 

Furthermore, apart from its crucial role as a moral guideline, religion has actually been proven time and again as having an immensely positive impact on societies around the world. Religious organisations Such as Compassion International, Food for the Hungry, World Vision and Samaritan's Purse are just few of the Countless movements carrying out altruistic deeds based on their strong foundation of belief in religion. Often, religious people feel that it is their obligation to be selfless and to help others so as to obey the commands of their respective deities. For instance, Prophet Muhammad has preached that one of the Core duties of Muslims is to help others. Religious people have, in fact, given more to charities than those who are not, according to a 2013 study by the National Study of American Religious Giving. Therefore, it is important to ask: Should the world be left to consist of only atheists, would there be as much compassion and selfless acts as there are today? 

In addition, religion has always been vital in fulfilling our fundamental human need. Researchers from Austin institute reported in 2014 that non-religious people are twice as likely to say that they are 'very unhappy' and 'unsatisfied with their lives' as compared to those who regularly practise religion. Often, religious people attain a certain kind of assurance knowing that their lives are in the hands of their Gods —and not theirs — and believing that good things will always be bestowed upon them, hence causing them to be less worried. The 'healing effect' served by religion, to people who are suffering from depression, has also been hailed as one of the greatest merits of religion. Without religion, people may feel empty, potentially causing them to become unproductive to the society as a whole. Given the role of religion as a psychological buffer for humans, it is fairly accurate to say that without religion, mankind may suffer from a collective depression in their lives. 
