Observers who hold the view that the world would be a better place without religion point to the litany of wars, conflicts, and strife which have seen perpetrators invoke the name of religion to advance their various causes and justify their atrocities. From the Crusades which pitted Christian armies against Muslim ones to the Thirty Years’ War which tore Europe apart with the Protestant-Catholic schism; from the ongoing violence between Hindus and Muslims in South Asia to the protracted Arab-Israeli conflict in the Middle East, it appears that religion in its various guises has been the cause of much human suffering. Additionally, societies that have ruled people by religious precepts often end up abusing human rights and freedoms on the basis of religion. A case in point is the gender apartheid policy enforced during the extremist fundamentalist Taliban regime in Afghanistan. By claiming divine sanction and religious right, the Taliban misused the Muslim faith as the basis for its appalling treatment of women who were denied basic human dignity. This is not just limited to Islam: during the American Civil War, many Southerners evoked passages from the Bible to justify the inhumane practice of slavery. Elsewhere in Uganda, the Lord’s Resistance Army have used the Ten Commandments and the desire to create a Christian caliphate of sorts in Central Africa to justify their deplorable actions, which include the recruitment of child soldiers, child-sex slavery and murder. Hence, critics of religion believe that because religion is often used as a vehicle to promote conflict and violence, it is unnecessary and has become incompatible with modern ideals of world peace, freedom and equality. 

Another oft-cited reason for why religion has little place in our modern world is the notion that with the advent of science and technology, man no longer need to be dependent on religion to provide answers for previously unexplained ‘mysteries of the universe’. Many of the teachings in the various faiths are predicated on faith and belief, rather than facts and reason, and opponents of religion assert that this runs counter to modern scientific thought. Some view religion as a primitive attempt to understand nature and the world at large, and that it has since been superseded by scientific inquiry. They therefore conclude that religious beliefs, founded in superstition and ignorance, are at odds with scientifically-proven evidence and merely perpetuate flawed ways of thinking onto future generations.  Some conservative American states are considering including creationism in the curriculum, or at least allowing teachers who introduce creationism as a legitimate scientific theory avoid legal liability. If these measures are passed, there would be a direct impact on the way science is taught, and consequently how the leaders of tomorrow perceive the natural world. In recent years, the scientific community has indeed been growing louder in their denunciation of religion as seen by the publication of such bestselling books as Richard Dawkins’ The God Delusion and Christopher Hitchens’ God is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything. As such, with the alleged clash of science and religion, some hold the view that our world would be better off without religion as it poses as a hurdle to rational and logical thinking. In similar fashion, opponents of religion assert that religion has no place in an increasingly secular world which is built upon the concept of the separation of church and state. In most democracies, there is a growing wariness of how religion can creep into the political sphere and affect major national decisions. The argument is that religion should be kept out of politics and the public sphere as we should not impose our own personal and private religious beliefs onto others in society, since it has the potential to infringe on the human rights of individuals or create divisions This can be observed in the United States, where the debate over safe access to abortion has at times devolved into a one. This understanding underpins the government’s desire to keep religion out of the public space in Singapore. While Article 15 of the Constitution guarantees the right to ‘profess and practise (one’s) religion and to propagate it’, it is qualified by Article 15(4) which guarantees freedom of religion only insofar as it does not contradict other laws relating to public order, health or morality. This sort of ‘accommodative secularism’ was introduced precisely because founding father Lee Kuan Yew believed firmly that while the freedom of religion should be enshrined in order to recognize the plurality of Singapore, freedom from religion was crucial in preventing destructive competition between the different religions.  Thus, to those who regard religion in a negative light, religion was, and is, one additional aspect within society apart from race, gender, sexual orientation that segregates people and keep them apart. Because religion often inflames passion, self-righteousness and intransigence over ultimate truths, it is arguable that without religion, there would be one less source of tension in our already problematic and conflict-ridden world.

Yet, notwithstanding the above arguments, the claim that the world would be a better place without religion fails to take into consideration the many benefits that religion accrues both to the individual and to society at large. With regards to the thesis that religion has no place in our world where scientific thought has become dominant, this is also the exact argument why religion is even more needed in our society today. Today, scientific research is advancing at breakneck speed and pushing moral boundaries and extending new frontiers in the process. This is especially true in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering, where issues such as stem cell research, cloning, cross-species transplant surgery and designer babies are all no longer merely the stuff of science-fiction novels and movies. In order to ensure that we do not violate the moral values which we hold close to heart or devalue the sanctity of life, we urgently need the moral principles upheld by religion or at least its moralistic framework to act as a moral check-and-balance to curtail the excesses of scientific research and scientific hubris. Religious and moral values must draw the lines and set the parameters under which science must fall, without which, the danger that the frenetic pace of scientific research might erode and outstrip our basic moral sensibilities is always present. Even outside the realm of science, the moral guidelines that underpin religion are imperative to serve as a moral compass to inform our decisions with reference to such complex issues as abortion, capital punishment, drugs and euthanasia. In tandem with secular education, we need religion to inculcate and develop moral values within people: Buddhism teaches benevolence to all living creatures; the Bible preaches against adultery, murder, greed and other societal vices; Islam teaches peace and respect for fellow human beings. Without religion to provide a much-needed moral voice, our society may well degenerate into a world where moral values are seen as secondary, or worse, irrelevant and unnecessary. 

