I disagree with the opinion that Science should be made the main focus of education because there are many other subjects that deserve our attention too. For example, history is instrumental in teaching students about the sacrifices our forefathers had to make to ensure our nation's multiracial society. History is also taught so that we may learn from grave mistakes committed in the past, such as the atrocities of Nazi Germany and the devastation of the Vietnam War that led to the loss of millions of lives, in order not to make similar mistakes again, Besides history, the arts are also essential because they teach us to be more refined and appreciative of our culture. in fact, Singapore has now moved away from a philistine stance, with the National Arts Council giving out grants to institutions that promote the arts scene. on National Day, in conjunction with SG50, the museums in Singapore made admission free for all Singaporeans to encourage them to visit the art and historical displays. We can learn lessons from these things that the sciences cannot teach us. Thus, there is a need for a comprehensive education with equal emphasis on every subject. It can also be said that not all of us are born to be scientists, and that some of us may have talents in other fields such as sports or music, making it pivotal that education is multi-faceted so that we may tap on the potential of those whose talents do not lie in the sciences. Thus, education in Singapore, especially in primary and secondary schools, must emphasize various subjects to ensure that students receive a holistic education. 

Furthermore, Science should not be the main focus of education in Singapore because there is a need to teach moral values. Claude Levi-Strauss once said that "the scientist is not one who gives the right answers, he is one who asks the right questions". It is important that scientists know how to differentiate right from wrong, as seen in the discussions of ethics in Science. While Science can improve our lives through the invention of products that confer convenience upon us, it is also capable of creating destructive forces such as nuclear weapons. Hence, there is clearly a need to ensure that Singaporean students have a strong moral foundation on which they can make the right decisions. A good example is the Malaysian education system which makes moral education or religious education a compulsory subject in schools from primary education up to secondary education. It is even examinable in the national exams. Moral education can teach us how to be responsible, to have integrity, and to think of doing good for mankind. Singapore needs to ensure that its students are morally sound people, as it is often people like these who succeed in gaining the respect of others. Even if Singapore wanted to groom a generation of scientists, moral education cannot be left out as we need scientists who can abide by the values of society. A scientist is one who has the capability to invent and to innovate. This is because we need altruistic scientists who are not only interested in patenting their products to earn profits but are also dedicated to making technological progress that can improve the well-being of others. For example, a few students from Ngee Ann Polytechnic were recently successful in creating an efficient and affordable water filtration system. They spoke of their intent to start a venture where they could spread the technology overseas to bring clean drinking water to the poor in underdeveloped countries. Hence, it is important that education incorporates not only Science, but also moral education to ensure that Singaporeans are well-respected and eager to make valuable contributions to mankind. 

All in all, it is obvious that Science is becoming more and more important in Singapore, especially in helping to boost our economy. While I agree that Science can become the focus of education in tertiary institutions for students who are ready to embark on a career related to the sciences, Science should not become the primary focus of education in primary and secondary schools. In fact, all subjects from the arts to the sciences to sports should he given equal emphasis as we must not seek to only groom intelligent students, but also students who can communicate well, and are responsible and keenly aware of the needs of others. Science is an incredibly powerful tool that consumes many resources, thus it is crucial to steer those who can drive this machine in the right direction. With that, it is clear that even with a reasonable desire to focus on the Science industry, our education system must not only focus on Science, but also on other subjects.
