Science is the systematic study of the physical and natural world around us with the use of concrete and empirical evidence to substantiate theories and concepts. One cannot ignore the ubiquity of Science in our daily lives and in society, In fact, Science has been prevalent in our world since centuries ago, from Isaac Newton's discovery of gravity to the culturing bacteria in laboratories by modern scientists. With recent advancements in technology over the past decade, Science is increasingly being seen as a popular niche to get into. Universities and research centres all over the globe have been scrambling publish the highest number of research papers and the governments of various nations have been pumping significant portions of their budget into the Science industry, It is an incontrovertible fact that Science  society, in our economy and in our world. In Singapore, the government allocates billions of dollars each year to education, reflecting the importance of education in our country. There has always been some criticism that the arts are ignored while the sciences dominate in our education system. The question now is: should this be stopped, or should Science be officially made the primary focus of education? In my view, Science should not be made the main emphasis of education in Singapore, because there is a need to focus on teaching other subjects, and for moral education. 

Proponents of a Science-based education in Singapore claim that Science should be the main focus of education because it is the future of our economy. Singapore, since its independence in 1965, has shifted the focus of its economy many times: from the labour-intensive to the capital-intensive form of manufacturing, and from service-based industries such as tourism to the knowledge-based industry from the start of the 21st century. The main reason for this was to enable Singapore to stay competitive in the globalising world and to attract investors to boost the economic growth. The Science industry is a lucrative one, due to the fact that its products, ranging from medical drugs to electronic gadgets, are high value-added and thus highly profitable. One only needs to look to the example of South Korea to see that investing in Science boosts the economy. The South Korean electronics industry has expanded due to their use of Science and technology to create innovative gadgets, such as the popular Samsung smartphones and house-cleaning mini-robots. 

Understandably so, from the perspective of an economist, it is thus imperative that Singapore makes Science the focus in education, to churn out scientists and researchers to engage in these high value-added industries and bring substantial increases to the nation's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). One could even say that the recent venture by GlaxoSmithKline, a major pharmaceutical firm, to set up its headquarters in Singapore, is clear evidence that the Science industry is becoming more important, While I agree that this is indeed the case, and that Singapore should take advantage of the profitability of the Science industry to boost the economy, I do not believe that Science should be the main focus of education. Students should be receiving a holistic and comprehensive education, especially in primary and secondary education, with a focus not only on Science, but also on the languages and the arts. While I agree that scientists need to be rigorously trained in their profession, it is also crucial for us to produce managers and entrepreneurs to market the products of the Science industry, What is the use of creating innovative gadgets if one cannot advertise them and sell them to make profits? We also need managers who can make mutually beneficial deals with overseas firms so as to guarantee sales and improve our business relations with others. Hence, in this aspect, it is clear that there is also a need to ensure that workers have good communication and business-making skills, and this can only be done through an education system that encompasses not only Science but also languages and life skills. 
