For thousands of years, the supremacy of religion and the acknowledgement of its importance to humanity has been undisputed. Since religion was first conceived and practised - the earliest dating back to 30,000 BC - it has been used as a torch to guide Our morality, and in many ways, shaped the modern world that we are living in. Still, in the past few centuries, people have started to ponder whether the benefits that has been brought about by religion are still attainable, whether the myriad of problems stemming from religion could render it obsolete, and whether it is better to live without it. However, could there be a world without wars and depression if religions are non-existent? Could there still be morality? It is my belief that religion is still relevant in our lives and that we would not be better off in its absence. 

Firstly, those who feel that the world would be a better place without religion would always bring forth the argument that religion has caused many atrocities over the course of history. The 5000 people burned at the stake during the Catholic Inquisition around the 121h century for being believers of other religions would lend support to that statement. Furthermore, this is only one of the many examples, The ongoing wars between Muslims and Christians, as reflected by the terrorist acts carried out by the self-proclaimed Muslim group, Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, against Christians have caused thousands of needless deaths around the world. The atheists would surely perceive these 'religious' people and their beliefs as inane, and from their point of view it is indeed right to proclaim that eliminating religion would annihilate a plethora of conflicts, making the world a better place for all. 

Another fair argument that can be raised on how the world would be a better place without religion is that the practice of religion has hindered, and may further hinder, the development of mankind in terms of science. Of course, we are all familiar with the story of Galileo's persecution by the Roman Church merely because he had declared - rightly - that the earth is not the centre of the universe. Surely, condemning a person as a heretic for matters regarding random celestial objects is an action which may be seen as far from being intelligent. Vet at that time, for people who were overly religious, it was Galileo who was perceived as an imbecile. Thus, religion may stop people from questioning the very tenets of their belief, even if their belief is wrong, and this may lead to stubbornness and irrationality. Some researchers have conjectured that if this period when scientific development was suppressed by the Roman Church (known as the Dark Ages) did not occur, we could have been living on other planets by now. Hence, it seems reasonable for one to argue that without religion, humanity could have, and will, advance to even greater heights, at a pace no priest could ever imagine. 
