Those who believe Maths to be meaningless are not entirely mistaken. Mathematical activities that seem to have no corresponding physical reality are abundant in mathematical calculations – the square root of 2 is not anobservable value, and neither are imaginary numbers, or negative numbers. The prevalence of abstract quantities, especially in the recent evolution of pur Mathematics, reasonably puzzles the common man, who sees no value in such made-up concepts. The studies of pure Mathematics seem directionless and aimless in themselves, and are more often than not merely fanciful whims of the mathematician considering the various possibilities that could arise in tweaking one step of the equation, or another. In addition, Mathematics seems to be subject to the changing tastes and preferences of the community that engages in the activity. Theorems, such as the nine-point-theorem, that once captivated numerous mathematicians have faded into the background as newer, fresher and more exciting problems arise. Criteria for what constitutes an interesting problem or an elegant proof change constantly. In this way, theories may not be discarded for no longer holding true, but can easily be deemed as unimportant and forgotten easily. This greatly undermines the meaning that Mathematics holds.

Yet, while such views do raise certain questions about the value of Mathematics, it fails to account for Mathematics’ focus on universal categories of human thought. Mathematics deals with ideas that are far too naturally ingrained in our perceptions to simply be an abstract product for entertainment. The human sense and understanding of numbers if an innate and irreducible mode of perception – children immediately recognize pairs and threesomes. Just like how we cannot but see the world in colour, we naturally identify quantities in all perceptions. Examples from history also illustrate this. Almost every single human civilization known has developed a language or medium for communicating numerical quantities. While conceptions of numbers may not always be uniform, such as the concept of zero only being invented much later in mankind’s history, the integral nature of mathematical concept cannot be denied. According to Kant’s categories of the human mind, human beings naturally adopt a mathematical lens when viewing the world. Being thus instinctive and natural, the view of Mathematics as a game created without meaning seems incompatible to human experience. In fact, in examining the origins of Mathematics, we see that Maths itself was conceived for a purpose that goes beyond satisfying game players. Mathematics is not only inspired by the reality that we exist in, but also enables us to understand this reality. Seemingly pointless formulas of differentiation and integration actually originated from the need to calculate rates of change of everyday moving objects. The coordinate plane stemmed from a need to characterize space effectively and efficiently. Mathematics was therefore not created as a game but as a means to interact with reality.Furthermore, as Eugene Wigner once said, Mathematics has an “unreasonable effectiveness” in characterizing and explaining phenomena of the natural world. Newton found that planets move around the sun in perfect elliptical orbits that correspond to the intersection of a plane and a cone. Planets move around the sun under the influence of a force that is exactly the inverse of the square of the distance between the sun and the planet. Even pure mathematic, which seems to have no correlation to physical reality, has been found at times to fit explanations in physics like a glove. According to the indispensability argument, if we are to believe in the reality of scientific phenomena in everyday reality, we need to believe in the Mathematics that facilitates their explanation. Mathematics shares such an unquestionable relationship with science that its value cannot be questioned – Mathematics enables us to interpret the real world. The answers that are found in mathematical problems are not meaningless; they old in themselves the explanations to scientific phenomena. Mathematics is not a game, but an enterprise of knowledge geared towards constructing knowledge about the real world and seeking truths that we as humans hold as important. This is further supported by the fact that Mathematics seems to naturally arise in nature. Musical harmonies occur in simple mathematical ratios, flowers are patterned by the Fibonacci sequence, and even beauty can be attributed to the mathematical golden ratio. Are these coincidences? The prevalence and regularity of these instances in nature suggest not. How then, can Mathematics be a game created by man?

The greatest objection to such a view, perhaps, is that Mathematics cannot be reduced to a set of formal rules. Godel’s incompleteness theorem proves that no sufficiently expressive mathematical system can be both complete and consistent at the same time, thus rejecting the possibility that Mathematics is simply a game played according to certain rules. In view of this, in order to argue that Mathematics is meaningless, one cannot undermine the inherent importance of Mathematics, but only the certainty it accords. Mathematics has always been heralded as the pinnacle area of knowledge for its seeming indubitability. Indeed, the notion that 1+1=2 could be false seems ridiculous. Yet, the axiom-theorem structure that may hold as the pillar of certainty may not be sufficient. While theorems are deductively derived, the certainty of Maths can be undermined by demonstrating the axioms to be false. For instance, Euclidean geometry relies on the axiom that the shortest distance between two points is a line, but Riemannian geometry states that it is a curve. This raises questions about which axiom are true and whether axioms themselves are always certain. Yet both sets of mathematical systems built upon these axioms have proven to be useful in formulating scientific theories such as Newton’s laws of gravitation and Einstein’s theory of relativity.
