Education is indeed an engine of vast potential. It is an invaluable asset that can empower a individual, or and an entire country. In this increasingly globalised world, Singapore aims to be at the forefront of many fields of knowledge. Certainly, education will play a fundamental role in propelling Singapore to greater heights. With Science playing an integral role in education, Singapore will be able to g retain its status as a crucial player in the field of Science and technology. While this would benefit Singapore tremendously, it cannot be forgotten that education plays a far more vital role than merely equipping students with the necessary skills and knowledge to excel in the field of Science. Education was never meant to simply build an economy; it was meant to mould our nation into one comprising of civic-minded citizens with global awareness and a hunger to learn. These traits will truly set Singaporeans apart from the rest, providing the impetus to become a truly outstanding nation in a diverse range of fields. I feel that while Science is definitely an important field of knowledge, it should not be the primary focus of education in Singapore. 

Of course, as the human race continues to tear down boundaries that are hindering human development, one has to admit that without Science, we would be nowhere. Science is ultimately a subject of Mother Nature; we cannot help but notice it all around us. Furthermore, Science does not simply explain natural phenomena. Its applications have spawned countless inventions that have changed our lives for the better. The handy smartphone and numerous vaccines are just some of the gifts that Science has given to us. Science has been a vital component of education in Singapore from the start. dt is no secret that Singapore's exceptional economic success can be attributed to its outstanding pool of workers carefully nurtured by the education system to keep Singapore at the helm of an increasingly competitive world. Having Science at the core of Singapore's education will strengthen Singapore's knowledge-based workforce with brilliant individuals. With Singapore excelling in industries such as the pharmaceutical, high-end electronics and biochemical industries, top quality scientists are undoubtedly in high demand. A deep and comprehensive knowledge of Science during their formative years will likely spur them on to contribute to these endless fields of possibilities, driving Singapore towards greater success. Hence, I agree that Science plays an important role in education in Singapore. 

However, one must not forget that learning does not stop at Science alone. Education is more than that. Fields such as the humanities, sports and the arts are all crucial to our society. Indeed, Science is an essential aspect of education, but these other fields cannot be disregarded. After all, Science can only get Singapore so far. With appropriate resources, any country could achieve what Singapore has in the field of Science, and even surpass her achievements. The world no longer depends on mere facts and hypotheses, and that is when attributes and skills make up the difference. For Singapore to continue prospering economically and socially, a global perspective and necessary skills and attributes are absolutely vital. In a world where change is the only constant, the importance of having global awareness cannot be emphasised enough. Education serves the purpose of broadening the horizons of our minds. It has the power to enlighten students with an understanding of current happenings around the world. With skills such as communication and critical thinking inculcated in students at a young age, students will be able to build a community with a global perspective and a will to challenge the status quo. As former Minister for Education Mr Heng Swee Keat pointed out, the '21st Century Competencies' such as those listed above will give Singapore a "competitive edge" in the world. These will not just able to build a empower Singapore in fields she already stands out in, but also help advance her position in other fields as well. A greater emphasis on subjects such as Literature and History will offer students a more personal learning experience and instil an understanding of human nature. Such personalised learning would enable Singapore to develop specialisations in different fields. With this, Singapore can overcome the problems posed by her miniscule population and stand taller. In the words of Sir Ken Robinson, an education specialist, human communities thrive upon a diversity of talents and not a singular conception of ability.
