In addition, the use of drones and other unmanned aircraft systems, has allowed for strikes and offences against terrorist threats to be carried out with minimal loss of civilian and soldier life. However, these systems are not always perfect and have sometimes led to the extermination of wrong targets, due to miscalculations or technical errors. Technology can also be conversely turned against the masses if and when it falls into the hands of such extremists. Twitter, the prolific social media network, was flooded with jihadist propaganda by terrorists during the 2014 World Cup using hashtags; namely, llBrazi12014 and #WC2014 which were taken advantage of to share pro-ISIS content, by utilising the massive international focus on these issues. Hence, technology can be, more often than not, a tool that worsens the current situation we are in in terms of global security, rather than offer the solution to problems, if it is not better regulated and managed such that it does not become manipulated by those who want to bring harm and destruction to the world. 

On the other hand, technology is widely regarded as the solution to many cases of medical emergencies or health crises that the world has faced, such as the Ebola epidemic in 2014. Technology undoubtedly plays an indispensable role in the development of experimental drugs that are used to combat crises, as seen from the use of ZMapp, the biopharmaceutical drug that was able to cure American had been infected by Ebola in West Africa. It effectively prevented the spread of the virus across continents, a danger that would have propelled the world into further chaos. On top of this, technology and its use in the medical field has transformed the ways we fight illnesses and diseases that mankind was previously vulnerable to. The creation and global distribution of the vaccine has enabled us to better combat formidable foes such as measles and tuberculosis, diseases that were once deemed to be life-threatening. In these cases, it is evident that technology is undeniably the key to a future with reduced medical threats and healthier life on our planet.

All in all, technology seems to hold the key to solving crises and long-lasting issues that exist in our world today, in the sense that it definitely has profound capabilities that have and will change the landscape of various aspects of our society. But we must not forget that technology, at the end of the day, is still a neutral entity; whether or not it will be the key to our problems hugely depends on how effectively mankind uses it for the good of the masses, but this is largely dependent on factors such as the decision-making of government bodies and international cooperation, among other things. As the renowned American psychologist B.F. Skinner puts it, "the real problem is not whether machines think, but whether men do."
