Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that as of now, Science is still the primary focus of education in Singapore. The Straits Times conducted numerous surveys on students and found that the majority them, a whopping two-thirds at least, still and will take up Science courses in the future. This goes to show the value of Science is still ingrained in the minds of Singaporeans as jobs like engineers, pilots, doctors and many others are still in high demand. Potential employees also have an easier time finding and qualifying for such jobs than their arts counterparts, and earn a relatively higher salary. 

Aside from the individual's standpoint, there is a need to consider the rapid emergence of newly industrialised economies in the global arena. The electronics industry in countries like China poses a great threat to Singapore due to its comparatively lower costs of labour and production, which will drive the price of their exports down, rendering Singapore's products to be competitively disadvantaged. Many multinational corporations will also flock to such countries, leading to reduced investments in Singapore. Thus, the Singapore government recognises the urgent necessity for Singapore to increase its competitiveness in this arena by lowering the costs, as well as significantly refining its high end goods and services. All these can be achieved with increased research, development and innovation in Science, and what better way to speed up such a process than by having a ready pool of highly skilled and scientifically adept workers that have undergone rigorous Science-related education. Therefore, Science still bears a dominant influence in both the interests of the country and her citizens, which further secures its current position as the prime focus in Singapore's education system. 

To conclude, I am of the opinion that Science should be the main focus of education in Singapore. However, the pre-eminent role of Science should not in any way, preclude the students' dreams and aspirations of selecting their ideal career path. After all, it is their keenness to study the subjects they desire which determines their career and destiny in life.
