50 years ago, in the light of the separation from Malaysia, sceptics claimed that Singapore 7 never succeed as an island nation on its own. Looking at Singapore in the present day, such a doom-laden view turned out to be erroneous as Singapore is now at the economic frontier of the world due to her high GDP per capita and propensity to attract global investments. These successes can be greatly accredited to high its education system. Yet, due to the growing demand of the masses wanting a more open and versatile education accompanied by government measures which aim to best cater to the vox populi, the role Science in the Singapore education system has started to diminish. Regardless of such notions, I believe that Science is still of paramount importance to education for predicating our high rate of economic growth and augmenting living standards of the people, at least for now. 

It is indisputable that Singapore is a small country which lacks vast amounts of natural resources and human capital. Such inadequacies render her vulnerable to the vicissitudes of the global economy as well as to external threats that seek to undermine our nation's sovereignty. Therefore, through the painstaking efforts of our leaders, we have utilised Science to offset such limitations by teaching the young in Singapore to be more knowledgeable and adept in using Science to push the nation forward. There are many institutions such as polytechnics and institutes of technical education that offer Science-based courses such as those in the field of aerospace technologies, chemical engineering and electronics, which have become pivotal drivers in our economy. Students are also encouraged to take up scholarship offers by a plethora of Science-based firms such as the Defence and Science Technology Agency (DSTA) and Agency of Science, Technology and Research (ASTAR). In the case of DSTA, students who take up their offer will be trained to further Singapore's advanced military technologies, as well as create new weapons for our nation's defence such as the SAR-21 semi-automatic rifle, and battle tanks that are procured even by the military of the United States of America for their military operations. In short, such contribution by Science warrants its status as an immutable cornerstone in the education system of Singapore so as to allow it to continue bringing in further successes for the good of the nation. 

Today, against the backdrop of Singapore's continued prosperity and stability which is largely attributed to the utilisation and practice of the Sciences, detractors vehemently assert that the Ministry of Education (MOE) should divert its attention away from the Sciences, and steer towards other aspects such as the arts or humanities. Their argument lies in the premise that students' learning should not be for the sole purpose of benefitting the nation, but for themselves as well. Personally, I concede that there is a need for a more holistic education in catering to the various preferences of the students. For instance, a junior college student from the Science faculty is required to take up at least a humanities subject for his A levels. Such a system ensures that a student's options in his career path is more varied and he will still be able to choose a non-Science course should he lose interest in Science. The establishment of the School of the Arts (SOTA) and many students' desire to enter it bears testament to the increasing focus of the arts in Singapore's education system. In addition, there is also an increased emphasis of sports and wellness in the education curriculum today. with continued successes in regional and global sports competitions such as the Olympics, there is greater emphasis placed on sports-based educational institutions like the Singapore Sports School, thereby prompting the need to groom more talented and exceptional local athletes to be on be a more par with the likes of Joseph Schooling and Fandi Ahmad. Thus, the opinion that there should be a more diversified and all-encompassing education system and curriculum in Singapore which places less emphasis on the Sciences is justified. 
