Certainly, Science is not the only aspect of education to be focused on. Global awareness and an understanding of the humanities will bring Singapore a long way. It Will make Singapore more than just a hub for Science, moulding a community that possesses strength, maturity and understanding. Definitely, education should provide a holistic learning experience as well. Education is the key to moulding a harmonious community with understanding and appreciation, built on strong fundamental values such as honesty, kindness and determination. This is especially crucial in Singapore, where the community comprises a plethora of races living together on a small island. To maintain this delicate social fabric, students need to be equipped with the right morals and values to ensure that Singapore continues to prosper. Education should impart skills and knowledge to students across various fields, keeping character education at the core. Acknowledging the importance of such an approach in Singapore, the Ministry of Education has pivoted the education system towards nurturing the core values of humanity such as integrity, empathy and perseverance in students. This emphasis on character and virtues is certainly welcomed. This will not only play a vital role in building the fundamental policies that support Singapore's vibrant society, but also distinguish Singapore as a nation that has much more to offer than just achievements in Science and technology. In an increasingly volatile global community with strained ties between communities and countries, it is important for Singapore to stay anchored with a distinguishable set of values. Hence, Singapore's approach to education should be one that is multi-faceted, slowly but surely moulding a community that strives for harmony and success. 

Some believe that technology is indeed the pivotal factor when attempting to solve global issues despite its lack of implementation because it is simply a matter of time before states and corporations recognise the gravity of global issues, and when that time comes, the technological innovations will be there to be implemented. They believe that it is critical that we have the tools to solve world dilemmas at our disposal even though their application may be delayed. Unfortunately, this idealistic claim fails to recognise that the delay in the implementation of technological advances may lead to detrimental, irreversible effects. Take, for instance, the invention of genetically modified food crops. Yes, they are controversial but they have proven to be able to contribute much to solve starvation in the Global South. Yet, the inertia of its implementation is resulting in more and more deaths due to starvation and deprivation in developing countries. Aside from the technology itself, pressure has to be put on governments to promote the production of these crops in order to prevent a multitude of deaths from famine; it is not enough to let such inventions sit on the bench passively and never enter the arena to battle global crises. Therefore, technology itself is not sufficient to solve world crises, it needs to be put into use and maximised to its full potential in order to solve issues in the world today. 

All in all, I believe that technology is not the most critical factor when it comes to solving mankind's greatest crises in this era. Of greater importance is the political willpower that allows such technology to be utilised; they must work hand-in-hand. Technology is unable to alleviate global issues revolving around ideological differences and the world economy. In these spheres, governments and corporations are again more crucial to finding a solution due to the power of these stakeholders in the world economy and diplomacy. In the end, technology is merely a tool — a means to achieve a particular result and can be used for intentions either good or bad, or not used at all; therein lies the key concept that decides whether technology can solve mankind's crises today.
