The world today faces a host of complex and diverse issues that are not easily understood or solved the inspiring successes and milestones that humanity has attained in the past century, such as ehe eradication of smallpox and Neil Armstrong's landing on the moon, unprecedented and large-scale problem have arisen such as environmental degradation, growing inequality, terrorism and climate change It is MY view that technology is indeed a crucial factor when it comes to grappling with these crises, but it cannot work on its own and requires other factors such as political willpower. Moreover, technology may not play such a pivotal role when it comes to crises involving ideological conflicts and problems in the global economy. 

Firstly, I believe that advanced technology is indeed a must-have when mankind attempts to solve today's global issues but it cannot achieve any measure of success without adequate political Willpower, human effort and financing. Extensive research and development throughout the 20"" and 21't century has ushered in a period of numerous and ongoing breakthroughs and improvements in technological innovation, such as nuclear power and earthquake detection systems. However, while these technological innovations exist, they cannot be fully utilised or maximised to their full potential unless they are properly implemented. This is evidently seen in the current dilemma of climate change. Although sources of renewable, clean energy have been invented, countries today are unwilling or unable to implement them, and continue using environmentally deleterious methods of energy production such as the burning of fossil fuels, which release tonnes of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere every year. 

In addition, despite warnings from renowned climate change researchers and United Nations conferences by the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change that the rate of greenhouse gas emissions are increasing exponentially, countries such as China remain steadfast in their use of unclean energy sources as they are more cost-efficient. The lack of implementation of technology can also be seen in the cases of elephantiasis in developing countries, and not in developed countries where the disease had already been eradicated in the 20th century. People in the Third World today are unable to access the technology and research that led to its eradication in the Global North back then. This is due to a lack of political and humanitarian effort and funding. Thus, it is evident that although technology is of paramount importance as an enabling factor when solving global issues, it must be executed in conjunction with adequate political and humanitarian effort. 
