Education has long been used as a tool in maintaining the fabric of civilised society while planting the seeds for advancement. As such, academic excellence has long been the focus of most education systems around the globe. In Martin Luther King Jr.'s words, the merit of an education should not be judged solely based on its academic rigour, but also its cultivation of good character. This is especially true for Singapore today. As we strive towards a knowledge-based economy, Science, the arts and the humanities are all quintessential in the education of the next generation, ensuring that our fast economic growth and technological advancements will be accompanied by a growing sense of identity and a better appreciation of the dynamics of global and historical affairs. These subjects will also need to be complemented with a strong character development programme to form a truly holistic curriculum that prepares our young for the challenges of modern society, as knowledge without a code of conduct can spell disaster. Therefore, I would argue that Science should not be the primary focus of education in Singapore. 

Science is a vital component of education in Singapore, as our modern world and all its marvels function on the principles of Science. Thus, it is undeniable that every student undergoing education should be well-equipped to improve the welfare of the society through the appreciation of Science in areas where they see room for improvement. Furthermore, the understanding of Science also contributes to a higher rate of economic growth as people are able to harness from modern technology high value-added products. Service industries also require very specific knowledge of Science to operate. Hence, it is not difficult to understand why many Asian countries that have developed exponentially in the past half century had placed great importance on Science in their education systems. Countries include China and the four 'Asian Tigers' of Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea. In Singapore, the success of Creative Technology and Razer, founded by Singaporeans, magnifies the power of Science in enriching people's life and generating profit. The former, founded in 1981, has now become a household name around the world while the latter, founded in 1998, has established itself as the market leader in the niche industry of gaming equipment. Without the high level of understanding of modern technology and Science as well as its applications in gadgets and devices, these firms would never have achieved the success they enjoy today. Thus, Science is a vital component of education in Singapore as it allows for rapid economic growth and also technological advancements. 

In conclusion, I opine that religion is indispensable, due to its role in guiding human morals and psychology. Despite the disadvantages that it may have brought to humanity, I feel that even without religion, such atrocities may still be carried out because of differences in morality or ideology. Besides, some of the blame that have been thrown towards religion are in fact not justified. Hence, I believe that although religion may not have made some places in the world better, the world would not be a better place without it.

