Moving on, technological advances are not able to alleviate crises involving large-scale ideological conflicts such as terrorism or war. Such differences in beliefs and ideologies are complex and do not have a straightforward, moral solution. How would one convince the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, in their bloody pursuit to establish a political system based on Sharia law, that their efforts are unjust and morally wrong? How would one convince terrorist groups like the Irish Republic Army that differences in religion need to be set aside in order to establish peace and harmony? Technology cannot provide a solution to these abstract questions. What is needed to solve ideological conflicts remains an obscure and mind-boggling concept, with no easy answers. Although technology such as protective war machinery and riot control equipment does help to mitigate the harmful effects of such conflicts, it can only deal with the symptoms and not the cause of the ideological clashes. Thus, technology has a limited role when it comes to providing a solution to ideological conflicts, 

Besides this, I also believe that technology is constrained in its capacity and significance when it comes to dealing with major problems in the current global economy such as inequality, and the dominance of transnational corporations in the economic sphere. In fact, technological advances might arguably have exacerbated the growing inequality of income and development in the world. For instance, the advances in transport and communication technologies have enabled transnational corporations to relocate their manufacturing operations overseas and break down their manufacturing processes to simple, self-contained tasks via the fragmentation of production. This has resulted in the workers in less developed countries, who took up these aforementioned manufacturing jobs, to have no opportunity to upgrade their skill set, become more highly skilled and earn a higher income. They are limited to performing simple activities such as sewing, with no training in communication and technical knowledge, which are seen as highly valued faculties in a  person seeking employment. While these workers continue to be trapped in this socio-economic class, the owners of transnational corporations earn even more profit from their exploitation of comparative owners and are able to increase their wealth rapidly. Instead of technology, what may be required to solve inequality is government intervention. With the provision of education, states can create a skilled a workforce that is able to improve its income, especially in the developing world. Also, government redistribution of finances from income tax can help alleviate poverty in a nation. Therefore, technology is unable to bring a solution to the economic issue of inequality; once again, it takes proper government intervention to solve such issues. 

All in all, while Science is a crucial part in Singapore's endeavours, it should not be the primary focus of education in the country. Allowing a student to explore the endless realms of knowledge will certainly develop in him an unquenchable thirst to learn, as opposed to restricting him to a single field of knowledge. This hunger to learn together with civic-mindedness and global awareness are the attributes that will open the doors to endless opportunities for Singapore. These are traits that a professor cannot indoctrinate in his students but are far more important than anything a professor can teach. Hence, Science should not be the primary focus of education in Singapore.