“All mathematical statements mean the same thing, namely nothing,” is a famous quote uttered by the philosopher Wittgenstein. Both the quote alone and the question stem seem very provoking, since mathematics – one of the most pure forms of knowledge – is just reduced to a mere game, one without any purpose or sense! If so, then why do we bother with math at all? Strange as it may seem, I agree that math is a game played (by us) according to certain rules (namely, those of deductive reasoning), but I do not agree that Math is meaningless. Meaning is a quality endowed on something by us humans, and in this scenario we ought to consider the meaning of math via the reliability of the knowledge it generates and the utility of these claims in other fields. By both accounts, math is not meaningless. Where did math come from? When did it begin? These are not questions thatcome to one’s mind immediately upon thinking of this essay’s question stem,but I believe that they play a crucial role in answering the question. Statements like 1+1=2 are undoubtedly mathematical in nature, yet we have good evidence that human babies and even most animals have some comprehension of such mathematical statements related to primitive arithmetic. Do these living beings play this “game” of math too? Seemingly not, for our concept of a game is one of something that is created just for fun. It has been argued that the very act of separating objects into numerical, countable sets leads to benefits for all animals (e.g. identifying how many predators are chasing you). Primitive and contrite as all this might seem – it does give us an inkling of the applicability of math in the real world, and the idea that mathematics might have a deep neurological grounding in our brains. In that sense, at least, it would not seem to be merely a game. Yet I do believe ultimately that mathematics is just a game. Why? For this, one must consider the growth of mathematics and the kinds of knowledge that aregenerated. Starting with primitive arithmetic, the Greeks stumbled upon irrational numbers and ultimately, in the last few hundred years, mathematicians have come up with the idea of imaginary numbers. What on Earth is an imaginary number? I can count 5 apples, I can even visualise π to be the ratio of a circle’s circumference and diameter. All that math seems to have meaning – a kind of truth that corresponds to what we can see in the world. But √(-1) apples? Such a concept seems perplexing, at best. Yet, millions of students worldwide accept that the idea of imaginary numbers exists, and that it does make logical sense. According to a correspondent truth, √(-1) cannot be directly observed, and so it is meaningless in that it does not seem to be able to be true. Yet this betrays a deep assumption, that math needs to directly apply to the real world. As long as we relax the idea that any mathematical objet ought to have a real-life counterpart, we can progress with math. The cost though, is this – math develops into a game, one whose ideas are rational and deductively follow from one another.	

Obviously, some philosophers have problems with this, but unfortunately for them, that is just how math is. Multi-dimensional spaces, sets of numbers smaller than every real number – these things are quite literally out of our world. Yet, there is a problem. If mathematics is just a game we play according to deductive logic, then what do we base our deductions on? After al, to deduce anything, you require something to deduce it from. According to modern mathematics, this deduction is done on the basis of certain basic axioms. For example, all of Euclidean geometry can be deduced from 5 postulates. These postulates seem to be self-evident and really, cannot be justified on the basis of anything else. Yet are they true? It is hard to give an explanation of why they ought to be true – and indeed they do not need to be true! Rejecting the parallel postulate is how the wonderful field of spherical and hyperbolic geometry was born. Now, some might ask “why can an axiom just be rejected?” to which the answer is “why not?” This practice is perfectly coherent with math being just a game. Indeed, if on the basis of some other power or reason, such as logic, some axioms definitely needed to be true, then we could not just reject our axioms as and when we like (at least not how we could do so within a game). But in math, we do reject axioms from time to time – indeed completely new fields are often discovered from relaxing an assumption of the existing field. Consider again the creation of irrational numbers. To some Greeks, these numbers are evil, they could not be written as the ratio of 2 normal numbers. Eventually the world just accepted the use of those “weird, evil” numbers and moved on. Similarly, some of us find it difficult to accept that axioms can be revised and lead to the creation of new systems – but this is just a fact of math that makes most sense when we consider math to be just a game played according to deductive rules that we imposed upon it.

As always, there is an implication to this – that two seemingly contradictory statements can be true at the same time. “The sum of interior angles of a triangle is 180°” and “the sum of interior angles of a triangle is 270°” are statements that are equally true – even if they seem contradictory. We all know that ~[P^~P], but isn’t the above a clear example of this? The first statement can be proven in Euclidean geometry, and the second in spherical geometry. How can this be? Perhaps a real world illustration would make it simpler – the former is true when your triangle is flat (on a plane) while the latter is true if your triangle is constructed on a sphere. The mistake is to say that both are triangles and so should have the same angle sum. They are fundamentally different because they are construed in different axiomatic systems, with different interpretations in the real world. Within an axiomatic system, the principle of non-contradiction certainly holds, but we must be careful to note that a mathematical object’s properties can only be understood within the context of the axiomatic theory itself. Another, perhaps more mind boggling example, is to consider “what is 1+2+3+4+…” We would normally say that the sum is infinity, but mathematicians say that under certain assumptions (i.e. if you are in the right axiomatic system), the answer could be -1/12. Both axioms are equally valid, they just have different fundamental axiomatic interpretations of what a “sum” is. This does seem to show that math is meaningless however, No statement can be true everywhere, only within an axiomatic system. Doesn’t this make math meaningless? If I can’t know what 1+1 is, then what am I wasting my life on? The answer to this is that we can know the truth of certain axioms, just within a system itself. Math still has lots of meaning – it shows all the truths that necessarily follow from a set of simple axioms. 5 simple axioms and I can deduce all the truths about geometry in a plane. Apart form this applicability of math in itself, this idea of how truths can be deduced from a set of simple assumptions has many practical applications in science. For instance, if I assume that in a key step of a chemical reaction, there is only 1 reactant molecule,	then the rules of math allow me to deduce how the concentrations of reactant and product change over time. This assumption has no mathematical basis, but once I assume it, I can predict so many properties of my system. It is rather akin to math itself – the axioms have no real reason for being true, but once I assume them there is a whole world of knowledge waiting to be discovered. This defining feature of math appears time and again in science – how can one then say that math is meaningless?
