Technology, simply referred to by many as the application of Science, has introduced our world to a wide array of ground-breaking possibilities — ranging from the pizza-delivering drones that orbit our airspace, to the small pacemakers that keep the hearts of many beating, It seems as though technology and its various manifestations have changed our lives for the better and hold vast amounts of potential that can be used to tackle major crises that have emerged in the 21 century. Yet, it is important not to forget that technology is also a double-edged sword that, if used incorrectly, can result in exacerbated consequences to our problems and will no longer be the key to finding a solution for our woes. This essay examines exactly how technology plays a role in the areas of environmental change, terrorism, and medicine, eventually hoping to unravel whether technology is truly the key to solving mankind's crises. 

To begin with, the dismal state of our environment and the progression of climate change can be identified as one major crisis that is posing a threat to Man's livelihood and well-being, Forecasted to bear irreversible repercussions such as the extinction of half of the world's plant species and one-third of animal species by 2080, according to the 2013 Nature Climate Change Journal, many are turning to technology for a way out. And indeed, technology and the invention of diverse mechanisms like solar panels, wind farms, and hydraulic electricity generators have allowed us to tap into renewable resources to provide for our energy consumption and decrease carbon emissions. Cars that run on electricity such as those developed by entrepreneur Elon Musk's company, Tesla Motors, are pioneering the way to lesser fuel usage and smoke emissions on roads as well. Ranging from Roadster sports car models to Model S sedans that are quickly rising in popularity, electric cars are projected to dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions by close to 80% from 1990 by 2050. That being said, technology can, in fact, be worsening the status quo as it is fuelling our energy consumption at an exponential rate, with much of our lives becoming digitalized today; US market reports in 2015 revealed that the number of active mobile devices in the world outnumber the global human population. As energy-efficient alternatives struggle to keep up with the pervasion of electronics and the resultant increase in energy usage, the reality may be that while technology undoubtedly holds the key to ameliorating our environmental damage, its capabilities are not being harnessed in the most effective manner. 

Elsewhere, terrorism and extremist violence is another pressing crisis in our world today. It has contributed to harmful consequences involving the loss of innocent lives and further complex issues surrounding undesirable anti-Islamic sentiments that are spreading throughout the world, even being propagated by the likes of controversial figures such as Donald Trump. This threat has very much become a global one, with major cities like Paris and Brussels falling victim to bombings by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). Technology has, in some ways, helped to counter these security threats by providing government agencies and police forces with better means of ensuring safety, from surveillance devices and tracking systems, to advanced algorithms that serve to identify potential extremists who may have established ties with terrorist groups. 
