However, Science should not be the primary focus of education. This is especially true for Singapore in the 21st century, where high standards of living are already achieved due to the rapid industrialisation in the past 50 years. For a society like modern-day Singapore, the arts and humanities must come hand in hand with Science for the education of the future generation. With our material needs satisfied, it is perhaps time for our academics to be geared towards the arts and humanities. This would allow Singaporeans to have a stronger national identity with the inclusion of a more diverse and developed local arts scene, and an increasingly proactive global citizenry with greater political awareness and understanding of current affairs. The government has clearly seen the need for developing more areas in the local education system, with the establishment of the School of the Arts (SOTA), the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts (NAFA) as well as Singapore Sports School to cultivate students whose talents do not lie in the sciences and who would contribute better to society working in occupations that do not require scientific knowledge. To a large extent, the arts and humanities will enable us to appreciate our short and mundane lives in this world. Historical eras can be marked by the paradigm shift of views in Science, but the zeitgeist of an age is usually defined by the expression of music and the arts. Hence, the arts and humanities cannot be ignored for their fundamental value in progress and history. 

Science, the arts and the humanities are all academically examined in Singapore. After all, it is what defines a formal education. However, an education that merely aims to achieve academic excellence among students is not a holistic one. Character development should also be placed among the priority goals of education. Knowledge without moral values is dangerous for our community, and by extension, the whole of society. A smart person without a moral code of conduct is just as detrimental to society as a kind soul without basic understanding of anything. In Singapore, we see the Ministry of Education shifting the emphasis of the requirements of its various Edusave awards away from academics towards character and leadership, made evident by the EAGLES award, which is given to students who are well-rounded not just in terms of academic achievements but also have good character. A counterexample can be seen in the United States where the passing of the No Child Left Behind policy in 2001 made schools and their curriculum more academic-driven, driving up the stress levels of both teachers and students and resulting in massive nation-wide complaints about the lack of character development such a policy entails. Thus, character development, just like the various academic subjects, is pivotal to the success of education in Singapore. 

In conclusion, Science should not be the primary focus of education in Singapore. Granted, Science does allow for technological advancements for a higher rate of economic growth, but alone, it is insufficient to help students truly comprehend their existence and purpose in the modern world. In Finland, with the recent introduction of phenomenon-based learning instead of subject-based learning, all the different aspects of education, be it Science, the arts or the humanities, come together to form a cohesive and coherent syllabus that prepares future generations for the challenges of the changing world. Perhaps, Singapore could look to marrying Science with other disciplines to cultivate a holistic education for the future generations.
